Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disposto	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apolidi	apolido	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitario	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
fanno	fare	VERB	V	advcl
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
apolidi	apolido	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevoli	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
vigenti	vigere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativa	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obj
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riforma	riforma	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominato	denominare	VERB	V	acl
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	obl
giorni	giorno	ADJ	A	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2016/1953	2016/1953	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
emanazione	emanazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
schema	schema	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
esprimono	esprimere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	advcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
umana	umano	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
generalmente	generalmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
gode	godere	VERB	V	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	conj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
dispongano	dispongano	VERB	V	advcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
prevedano	prevedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
OIL	OIL	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
143	143	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
158	158	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
parità	parità	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
uguaglianza	uguaglianza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	E	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	advmod
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
legittimi	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tradotti	tradotre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sinteticamente	sinteticamente	NOUN	S	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
comprensibile	comprensibile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingue	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
francese	francese	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inglese	inglese	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spagnola	spagnolo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
preferenza	preferenza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
ostino	ostare	VERB	V	obl
motivate	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	acl
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	conj
agevolato	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
informare	informare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicina	vicino	ADJ	A	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proceduto	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
costui	costui	PRON	PE	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
status	status	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decesso	decesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	conj
ospedaliero	ospedaliero	NOUN	S	xcomp
urgente	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	acl
pervenire	pervenire	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debbano	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuti	trattenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
status	status	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
umanitari	umanitare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
stipulati	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevoli	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	Stati	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazioni	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obj
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Comitato	comitato	PROPN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominato	denominare	VERB	V	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	xcomp
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presieduto	presiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Vice	vice	ADJ	A	amod
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	conj
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composto	comporre	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
temi	tema	NOUN	S	obl
trattati	trattato	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	aux
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidenti	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimenti	Dipartimente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
innovazione	innovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministeri	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
italiani	italiano	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mondo	mondo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	conj
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunioni	riunione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invitati	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	NOUN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	appos
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	NOUN	SP	conj
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	SP	nsubj
Stato	stato	PROPN	SP	flat:name
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
città	città	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomie	autonomia	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrati	immigrato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentative	NOUN	S	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
predispone	predisponere	VERB	V	parataxis
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
salva	salva	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
politica	politica	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
parlamentari	parlamentare	ADJ	A	amod
esprimono	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Interno	Interno	PROPN	SP	nmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	PROPN	SP	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
raggiunti	raggiungere	VERB	V	acl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
attuativi	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	dep
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	dep
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
governative	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
propone	proporre	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delinea	delineare	VERB	V	parataxis
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
volti	volgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	dep
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversità	diversità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
confliggenti	confliggentare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
reinserimento	reinserimento	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
parlamentari	parlamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
definite	definire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	ROOT
massime	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ammettere	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimenti	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
se	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ravvisi	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanati	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
visti	visto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
transitoria	transitorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dotazioni	dotazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
concorrenti	concorrente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perseguimento	perseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivo	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rimuovere	rimuovere	VERB	V	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ostacoli	ostacolo	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pieno	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
umana	umano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Consigli	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentati	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Regione	regione	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
localmente	localmente	ADV	B	compound
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrati	immigrato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermi	Fermi	ADJ	A	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
perseguimento	perseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
espleta	espleta	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
statistico	statistico	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
aggiuntivi	aggiuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
statistici	statistico	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fenomeno	fenomeno	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
extracomunitaria	extracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politico	NOUN	S	obl
migratorie	migratorio	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
predisposto	predisposto	ADV	V	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
schema	schema	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
esprimono	esprimere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	advcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
SULL'	SULL'	PROPN	SP	amod
INGRESSO	INGRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
IL	IL	DET	RD	det
SOGGIORNO	SOGGIORNO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ALLONTANAMENTO	ALLONTANAMENTO	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
TERRITORIO	TERRITORIO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DELLO	DELLO	PROPN	SP	dep
STATO	STATO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
SULL'	SULL'	PROPN	SP	amod
INGRESSO	INGRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
IL	IL	ADJ	A	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
SOGGIORNO	SOGGIORNO	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
frontiere	frontiere	NOUN	S	compound
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2016/399	2016/399	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
viaggi	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punto	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2018/1240	2018/1240	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1030/2002	1030/2002	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anch'	anche	ADV	B	advmod
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2016/399	2016/399	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
valichi	valico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
appositamente	appositamente	ADV	B	advmod
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingressi	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
uscite	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
entry	entry	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
exit	exit	NOUN	S	conj
system-EES	System-EES	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2017/2226	2017/2226	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
informare	informare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obj
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	obl
installate	installare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valichi	valico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
apporre	apporre	VERB	V	xcomp
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
timbro	timbro	NOUN	S	obj
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uscita.(91	uscita.(91	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punti	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2017/2226	2017/2226	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
designate	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modifica	modificare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
EES	EES	PROPN	SP	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
archivi	archivio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2017/2226	2017/2226	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiorni	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
visti	visto	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
emessi	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
comprensibile	comprensibile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
inglese	inglese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
francese	francese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spagnolo	spagnolo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
arabo	arabo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
illustri	illustrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
comprensibile	comprensibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
inglese	inglese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
francese	francese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spagnolo	spagnolo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
arabo	arabo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
motivato	motivare	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
visto	visto	NOUN	VA	nmod
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
24	24	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
26	26	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
27	27	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
28	28	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
29	29	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
36	36	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
39	39	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatta	contraffatto	ADJ	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
visto	visto	NOUN	V	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
automaticamente	automaticamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reingresso	reingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
viaggi	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2018/1240	2018/1240	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
17	17	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
18	18	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rifiutata	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
annullata	annullare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unità	Unità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ETIAS	ETIAS	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
European	European	PROPN	SP	nsubj
travel	travel	VERB	V	advcl
information	information	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
authorisation	authorisation	X	SW	obl
system	system	X	SW	flat:foreign
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	Capo	PROPN	SP	nmod
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2018/1240	2018/1240	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
42	42	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	compound
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2018/1240	2018/1240	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inviata	inviare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modulo	modulo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
perfezionata	perfezionare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
messaggio	messaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avverso	avverso	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
le	il	DET	RD	det
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unità	Unità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ETIAS	ETIAS	PROPN	SP	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obj
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punti	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
22	22	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2018/1240	2018/1240	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
designate	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modifica	modificare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggi	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
European	European	PROPN	SP	dep
travel	travel	VERB	V	advcl
information	information	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
authorisation	authorisation	NOUN	SP	obl
system-ETIAS	System-ETIAS	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
archivi	archivio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2018/1240	2018/1240	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
armonia	armonia	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adesione	adesione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consentirà	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	PR	nsubj
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	PI	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
atta	attare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	xcomp
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
emanata	emanare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfi	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
soppressone	soppressone	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiere	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	conj
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
582	582	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
583-bis	583-bis	ADJ	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
583-quinquies	583-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stupefacenti	stupefacente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	conj
sessuale	sessuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
favoreggiamento	favoreggiamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emigrazione	emigrazione	NOUN	S	conj
clandestina	clandestino	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclutamento	reclutamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
destinare	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prostituzione	prostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prostituzione	prostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impiegare	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Impedisce	Impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
capo	capo	NOUN	S	conj
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1941	1941	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
633	633	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
474	474	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1948	1948	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
rappresenti	rappresentare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	obj
concreta	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiere	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone.(90	persone.(90	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
visti	visto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiorni	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
validi	valido	VERB	V	advcl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiorni	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lunga	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
identica	identico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
menzionata	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiorni	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
validi	valido	ADJ	A	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esplicitamente	esplicitamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
visti	visto	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscritti	sottoscritto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ratificati	ratificare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
richiedenti	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
forniscono	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
identificatori	identificatore	NOUN	S	obj
biometrici	biometrico	ADJ	A	amod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
visti	visto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiorni	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatti	fatto	VERB	V	advcl
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	obl
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
parlamentari	parlamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	PR	det:poss
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
visto	visto	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
respinti	respinte	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
espulsi	espellere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trascorso	trascorrere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espulsi	espellere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
segnalati	segnalato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1987/2006	1987/2006	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Polizia	Polizia	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	mark
parere	parere	VERB	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	nmod
strategica	strategico	ADJ	A	amod
antiterrorismo	antiterrorismo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	conj
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
visti	visto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
quel	quello	DET	DD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
finalizzato	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
sanciti	sancire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reciproco	reciproco	NOUN	S	nmod
impegno	impegno	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
preordinate	preordinare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8.1	8.1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	ROOT
giorni	giorno	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988,n	1988,n	SYM	S	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Accordo	Accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
articolato	articolare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sottoscrivere	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rappresenta	rappresentare	VERB	V	ROOT
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	nmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
sussidiaria	sussidiario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
familiare	familiare	VERB	V	advcl
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	S	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
umane	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziarie	finanziaria	NOUN	S	conj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Proroga	Proroga	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	obl
fotodattiloscopici	fotodattiloscopico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
entrati	entrare	VERB	V	acl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
muniti	munire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciati	rilasciato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38-bis	38-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nsubj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
entrati	entrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
soggiorni	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
brevi	breve	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
turismo	turismo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
emigrazione	emigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorni	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
case	casa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ospedali	ospedale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
religiosi	religioso	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
convivenze	convivenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	obl
fotodattiloscopici	fotodattiloscopico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14-bis	14-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
sussidiaria	sussidiario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
20-bis	20-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
22	22	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
42-bis	42-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quella	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	VERB	V	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
visite	visita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affari	affare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
turismo	turismo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frequenza	frequenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
scolastiche	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
universitarie	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alta	alto	ADJ	A	amod
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
artistica	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
musicale	musicale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coreutica	coreutico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
debitamente	debitamente	ADV	B	advmod
certificata	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prolungato	prolungare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
percorso	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
formativo	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
compiuto	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	amod
documentate	documentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quella	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	appos
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	PI	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
venuto	venire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	NUM	N	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
ripetitivi	ripetitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
permesso	permesso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
esterna	esterno	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rientro	rientro	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
visto	visto	NOUN	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osta	NOUN	VA	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
muniti	munito	ADJ	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
INAIL	INAIL	PROPN	SP	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Uguale	Uguale	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
visti	visto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-sexies	3-sexies	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatti	Fatti	NOUN	S	advcl
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	obl
fotodattiloscopici	fotodattiloscopico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutati	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
mancano	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vengono	venire	AUX	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
mancare	mancare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
richiesti	richierre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
sopraggiunti	sopraggiunte	NOUN	S	ccomp
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
consentano	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	obl
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanabili	sanabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ricongiunto	ricongiunto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettività	effettività	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legami	legame	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47)(90	47)(90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pericolosità	pericolosità	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiere	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
condanne	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
407	407	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pericolosità	pericolosità	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiere	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
decisivi	decisivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
implicati	implicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resi	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
esecutivi	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfi	soddisfare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
contraenti	contraente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
costituzionali	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
muniti	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
conferisce	conferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
validi	valido	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravventori	contravventore	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obj
intima	intima	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
recarsi	recare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intimazione	intimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
conferisce	conferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-ter	7-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
violato	violare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intimazione	intimazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7-bis	7-bis	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
entrati	entrare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	xcomp
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-quater	7-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	cop
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riammissione	riammissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
espulso	espulso	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
conferisca	conferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
carta	carta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tecnologia	tecnologia	NOUN	S	nmod
avanzata	avanzare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
anticontraffazione	anticontraffazione	NOUN	S	compound
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
approvare	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
innovazione	innovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1030/2002	1030/2002	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riguardante	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
uniforme	uniforme	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
carta	carta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
recano	recare	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
carta	carta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
8.1	8.1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
perm	perm	PROPN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	ROOT
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8.2	8.2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8.1	8.1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
h	h	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	i	X	NO	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
r	r	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
20-bis	20-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
22	22	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	X	ROOT
-	-	X	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42-bis	42-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reingresso	reingresso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
viaggi	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
carta	carta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
reingresso	reingresso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
viaggi	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
carta	carta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizza	utilizzare	VERB	S	conj
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nsubj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesto	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
rilasciare	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
legittimamente	legittimo	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sopra	sopra	ADV	B	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attestante	attestante	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
straniero	straniero	NOUN	V	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prestatore	prestatore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
apolide	apolido	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rientri	rientrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	obl
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
alloggi	alloggio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
edilizia	edilizia	NOUN	S	nmod
residenziale	residenziale	ADJ	A	amod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rientro	rientro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contenga	contengare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
consentite	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quello	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
attestante	attestante	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
convertibili	convertibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
permesso	permettere	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
sportiva	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
p	p	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
m	m	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n	n	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
o	o	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	X	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
religiosi	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
riguardanti	riguardare	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricreative	ricreativo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
scolastiche	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esibiti	esibire	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
denominati	denominare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ottempera	ottempero	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	nmod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
attestante	attestante	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ann	ann	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2.000	2.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dubitare	dubitare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
idenlità	idenlità	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	obl
fotodattiloscopici	fotodattiloscopico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
segnaletici	segnaletice	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	ADV	B	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondate	fondato	VERB	V	advcl
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
comprovanti	comprovanto	VERB	V	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
fonte	fonte	NOUN	S	conj
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostentamento	sostentamento	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
conviventi	convivere	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Prefetto	prefetto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
località	località	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
interessano	interessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
trasgrediscono	trasgredisce	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allontanati	allontanare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
anagrafiche	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentata	documentata	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitalità	ospitalità	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	nmod
territorialmente	territorialmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
valido	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espatrio	espatrio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Obblighi	Obblighi	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ospitante	ospitante	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
R.d	R.d	PROPN	SP	appos
.	.	NOUN	S	punct
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ospita	ospitare	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
apolide	apolido	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
parente	parente	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affine	affina	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
cede	cedere	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rustici	rustico	ADJ	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
urbani	urbano	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denunciante	denunciante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
apolide	apolido	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esatta	esatto	ADJ	A	amod
ubicazione	ubicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
ceduto	ceduto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
alloggiata	alloggiare	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ospitata	ospitare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presta	prestare	VERB	V	conj
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3.500	3.500	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sacro	sacro	ADJ	A	amod
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	conj
diplomatico	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Permesso	Permesso	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dimostra	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	conj
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rientri	rientrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	obl
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
alloggi	alloggio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
edilizia	edilizia	NOUN	S	nmod
residenziale	residenziale	ADJ	A	amod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
igienico	igienico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Azienda	Azienda	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definita	definire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
l	L	X	X	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
reca	recare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
annotazioni	annotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	appos
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
data	data	NOUN	S	appos
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	B	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferita	trasferire	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	dep
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
aggiornata	aggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferita	trasferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	B	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
annotazioni	annotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	nsubj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	parataxis
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vulnerabilità	vulnerabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
caritatevoli	caritatevolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
riconosciuti	riconoscere	ADJ	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorre	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
figurativamente	figurativamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obj
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
status	status	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
10	10	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
valido	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
fotografie	fotografia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
automaticamente	automaticamente	ADV	B	advmod
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
diciotto	diciotto	ADV	N	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
test	test	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
università	università	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
vigilati	vigilare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
213	213	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
test	test	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
soggiornano	soggiornano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
soggiornano	soggiornano	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	obl
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
20-bis	20-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
22	22	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
42-bis	42-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e)godono	e)godono	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
status	status	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
Vienna	Vienna	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1961	1961	NUM	N	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Vienna	Vienna	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1963	1963	NUM	N	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1969	1969	NUM	N	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
missioni	missione	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Vienna	Vienna	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1975	1975	NUM	N	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
universale	universale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
pericolosi	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pericolosità	pericolosità	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
condanne	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitive	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
status	status	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
sussidiaria	sussidiario	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
13	13	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
15	15	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
18	18	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
15	15	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiornato	aggiornare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
computano	computano	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
d	d	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
assenze	assenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
interrompono	interrompere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incluse	includere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
consecutivi	consecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superano	superare	VERB	V	conj
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
detta	dire	VERB	V	advcl
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dipesa	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentati	documentato	ADJ	A	conj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comprovati	comprovato	ADJ	V	conj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
fraudolentemente	fraudolentemente	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
mancano	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vengano	venire	AUX	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
mancare	mancare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
consecutivi	consecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riacquistarlo	riacquistare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(;	(;	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avverso	avverso	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	case
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	nmod
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10-bis	10-bis	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
sussidiaria	sussidiario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legami	legame	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-bis	11-bis	SYM	X	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attualità	attualità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
visto	visto	VERB	V	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circolare	circolare	VERB	V	conj
liberamente	liberamente	ADV	B	advmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
subordinata	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	V	conj
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
riserva	riservare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vieta	vietare	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usufruire	usufruire	VERB	V	advcl
delle	di	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
erogazioni	erogazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scolastica	scolastico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ottenimento	ottenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alloggi	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
edilizia	edilizia	NOUN	S	nmod
residenziale	residenziale	ADJ	A	amod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dimostrata	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	parataxis
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigente	vigente	ADJ	S	amod
normativa	normativa	NOUN	A	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	cop
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riammissione	riammissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
espulso	espulso	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	A	flat:name
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13-bis	13-bis	ADV	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
autorizzata	autorizzato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riammissione	riammissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
allontanato	allontanare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	obl
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
annotazionì	annotazionì	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportato	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	ccomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	xcomp
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	V	acl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
beneficia	beneficiare	VERB	V	advcl
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
riconosciuta	riconosciere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Stranieri	Stranieri	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	xcomp
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciate	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sportello	Sportello	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
frequentare	frequentare	VERB	V	xcomp
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
normativa	normativa	NOUN	A	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
lecito	lecito	NOUN	S	compound
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occasionali	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	conj
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	S	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
risieduto	risiedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiorni	soggiorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
visto	vedere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
prescinde	prescindere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
pericolosi	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pericolosità	pericolosità	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
16	16	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
condanne	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitive	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legami	legame	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	conj
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	xcomp
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	SP	flat:name
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definita	definire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attualità	attualità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informato	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	obl
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
annotazionì	Annotazionì	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definita	definire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obj
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
inserita	inserito	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	acl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	ccomp
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	B	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferita	trasferire	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
annotazionì	annotazionì	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiornata	aggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	A	flat:name
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
status	status	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-ter	8-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Status	Status	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	NOUN	S	nmod
periodo-CE	periodo-CE	NUM	V	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
27-quater	27-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Questore	Questore	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dimostrino	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
soggiornato	soggiornare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ininterrottamente	ininterrottamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
titolari	titolare	ADJ	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quater	27-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
assenze	assenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
interrompono	interrompere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incluse	includere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
consecutivi	consecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superano	superare	VERB	V	conj
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
un	uno	DET	RI	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	obl
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
annotazionì	Annotazionì	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ex	ex	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UÈ	UÈ	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
consecutivi	consecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	S	nmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-sexies	3-sexies	PROPN	SP	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	acl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	S	nmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
soggiornato	soggiornare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ininterrottamente	ininterrottamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	acl:relcl
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
SULL'	SULL'	PROPN	SP	amod
INGRESSO	INGRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
IL	IL	DET	RD	det
SOGGIORNO	SOGGIORNO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ALLONTANAMENTO	ALLONTANAMENTO	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
TERRITORIO	TERRITORIO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DELLO	DELLO	PROPN	SP	dep
STATO	STATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CONTROLLO	CONTROLLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELLE	DELLE	PROPN	E_RD	case
FRONTIERE	FRONTIERE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
RESPINGIMENTO	RESPINGIMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ED	eD	PROPN	SP	nmod
ESPULSIONE	ESPULSIONE	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
innanzi	innanzi	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
consolare	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
entrando	entrare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
sottraendosi	sottraere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fermati	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
subito	subito	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	S	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
destinatario	destinatario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rientrare	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
espulso	espulso	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obl
immediato	immediare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-quater	2-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
denunciato	denunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
espulso	espulso	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
reingresso	reingresso	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-quinquies	2-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2-quater	2-quater	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-sexies	2-sexies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
opera	opera	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
vettore	vettore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
privo	privo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
respinto	respingere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prenderlo	prendere lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ricondurlo	ricondure lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
negato	negare	VERB	V	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
transito	transito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
vettore	vettore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
trasportarlo	trasportare lo	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rifiuti	rifiuto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
imbarcarlo	imbarcare lo	VERB	V_PC	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
negato	negare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rinviato	rinviato	VERB	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	obj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
status	status	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
umanitari	umanitare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
respinto	respinto	NOUN	S	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
valichi	valico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
respingimenti	respingimente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1987/2006	1987/2006	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquis	acquis	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10-bis	10-bis	NOUN	S	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ingresso	Ingresso	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trattiene	trattiene	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
destinatario	destinatario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
identificato	identificare	VERB	A	acl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
denunciato	denunciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	ROOT
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	nmod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	advcl
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
345	345	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Acquisita	Acquisita	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
18-ter	18-ter	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
20-bis	20-bis	DET	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
42-bis	42-bis	PROPN	SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	S	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10-ter	10-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
rintracciati	rintracciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soccorsi	soccorrere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
salvataggio	salvataggio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rintracciato	rintracciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attraversamento	attraversamento	NOUN	S	nmod
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
interna	interno	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esterna	esterno	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
giunto	giungere	VERB	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
salvataggio	salvataggio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
punti	punto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
crisi	crisi	NOUN	S	nmod
allestiti	allestire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
451	451	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
563	563	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
punti	punto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
crisi	crisi	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevamento	rilevamento	NOUN	S	nmod
fotodattiloscopico	fotodattiloscopico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
segnaletico	segnaletico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14	14	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
603/2013	603/2013	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
assicurata	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricollocazione	ricollocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	ADJ	A	nmod
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nmod
assistito	assistito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ottimale	ottimale	ADJ	A	amod
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ospitati	ospitare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
punti	punto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
crisi	crisi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
analoghe	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
coordinata	coordinato	ADJ	A	amod
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
capienza	capienza	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
cooperare	cooperare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Paesi	Paesi	PROPN	SP	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
soggiornato	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
transitato	transitare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consentendo	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	conj
condotte	condurre	VERB	V	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
procedano	procedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obl
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
schede	scheda	NOUN	S	conj
elettroniche	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
S.I.M.	S.I.M.	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
eS.I.M.	eS.I.M.	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
video	video	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fotografici	fotografico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	aux
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avvisato	avvisare	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mediatore	mediatore	NOUN	S	nmod
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
compiute	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
controllati	controllato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
fotografica	fotografico	ADJ	A	amod
allegata	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
territorialmente	territorialmente	ADJ	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
compiute	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
convalida	convalidare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	conj
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj
illegittimamente	illegittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
controllati	controllato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
inutilizzabili	inutilizzabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	ROOT
reiterato	reiterato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottoporsi	sottopore si	VERB	V_PC	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
configura	configura	NOUN	S	nmod
rischio	rischio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
caso	caso	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conserva	conservare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
cessino	cessare	VERB	V	advcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definita	definire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
informato	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
conosciuta	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
francese	francese	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inglese	inglese	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spagnola	spagnolo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informato	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottoporsi	sottoporre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Potenziamento	potenziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
piano	piano	NOUN	S	obj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
potenziamento	potenziamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
perfezionamento	perfezionamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
automazione	automazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compatibilità	compatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
extranazionale	extranazionale	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	appos
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emana	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
unificato	unificare	ADJ	V	acl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
marittima	marittimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terrestre	terrestre	ADJ	A	conj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
..	..	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
automatizzati	automatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
informatica	informatica	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttive	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prefetti	prefetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
confine	confine	NOUN	S	nmod
terrestre	terrestre	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prefetti	prefetto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluoghi	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
marittima	marittimo	ADJ	A	amod
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
marittima	marittimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terrestre	terrestre	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prefetti	prefetto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
questori	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
zone	zona	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
marittime	marittima	NOUN	A	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
militari	militare	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
interessati	interessare	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sovrintendono	sovrintende	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttive	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
emanate	emanare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accelerare	accelerare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
migliorare	migliorare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reciproca	reciproco	ADJ	A	amod
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	V	conj
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	advmod
individuate	individuato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compatibilità	compatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	A	amod
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	ADJ	A	nmod
predispone	predisponere	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obj
pluriennali	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
straordinari	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
logistici	logistico	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
acquistare	acquistare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ripristinare	ripristinare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
ceduti	cedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
accessori	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
preventive	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertata	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contribuisce	contribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2004	2004	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2005	2005	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utili	utile	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
irregolari	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
popolazione	popolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
migratoria	migratorio	ADJ	A	amod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
valichi	valico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sevizi	sevizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	acl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendano	intendare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
zona	zona	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
transito	transito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazioni	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizza	organizza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanzia	finanzia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
compie	compiere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procurarne	procurare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
cittadina	cittadino	ADJ	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
umanitaria	umanitario	ADJ	A	amod
prestate	prestare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
bisogno	bisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizza	organizza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanzia	finanzia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
compie	compiere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procurarne	procurare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
cittadina	cittadino	ADJ	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sedici	sedici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	conj
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
trasportata	trasportato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esposta	esporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
procurarne	procurare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	conj
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
trasportata	trasportato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
inumano	inumano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degradante	degradante	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
procurarne	procurare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	conj
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
materie	materia	NOUN	S	conj
esplodenti	esplodente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
ricorrendo	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
due	due	NUM	N	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
prevista	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
25.000	25.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
reclutare	reclutare	VERB	V	acl
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
destinare	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prostituzione	prostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
sessuale	sessuale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impiegare	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
favorirne	favorire ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trame	trama	NOUN	S	nmod
profitto	profitto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indiretto	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
114	114	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aggravanti	aggravante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
equivalenti	equivalente	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
queste	questo	PRON	PD	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aiutando	aiutare	VERB	V	advcl
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
decisivi	decisivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumazione	consumazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-sexies	3-sexies	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
354	354	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
609-octies	609-octies	NUM	N	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpevolezza	colpevolezza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarre	trarre	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ingiusto	ingiusto	NOUN	S	obj
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
illegalità	illegalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
punite	punito	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
favorisce	favorire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarre	trarre	VERB	V	acl
ingiusto	ingiurre	ADJ	A	amod
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
cede	cedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
privo	privo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartenga	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
confiscati	confiscato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
ricavate	ricavare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
confiscati	confiscato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
potenziamento	potenziamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
repressione	repressione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tema	tema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
vettore	vettore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
aereo	aereo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
marittimo	marittimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
terrestre	terrestre	ADJ	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accertarsi	accertare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasportato	trasportare	ADJ	A	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organo	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
bordo	bordo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	nmod
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
solo	solo	ADJ	A	advmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
3.500	3.500	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.500	5.500	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
trasportati	trasportato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzato	utilizzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
689	689	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
finalizzate	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazioni	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttive	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
operanti	operare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
confine	confine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	conj
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
trasportate	trasportato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	NOUN	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	parataxis
fondati	fondato	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redavere	VERB	V	ROOT
processo	processo	NOUN	S	xcomp
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
moduli	modulo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
convalida	convalidare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
perquisizioni	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
352	352	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrati	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
finalizzate	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
repressione	repressione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
ostino	ostare	VERB	V	advcl
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
richiesta	richiesta	VERB	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imbarcazioni	imbarcazione	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
loro	loro	PRON	PE	dep
affidate	affidare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
operatività	operatività	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Registro	Registro	PROPN	SP	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2017	2017	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
alienati	alienare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stupefacenti	stupefacente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
psicotrope	psicotropo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrati	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
301-bis	301-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-ter	8-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegata	delegare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
nullaosta	nullaosta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-quater	8-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8-ter	8-ter	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-quinquies	8-quinquies	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
prioritaria	prioritario	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
subordine	subordina	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
alienati	alienare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distrutti	distruggere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ccomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imbarcazioni	imbarcazione	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
loro	loro	PRON	PE	dep
trasferite	trasferito	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
distrutti	distruggere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
confiscati	confiscato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
301-bis	301-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
confiscate	confiscare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
ricavate	ricavare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
confiscati	confiscato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
potenziamento	potenziamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
repressione	repressione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
operativa	operativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
affluiscono	affluisce	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
capitolo	capitolo	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnate	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
richieste	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
capitoli	capitolo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rubrica	rubricare	ADJ	A	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sicurezza	Sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
incontri	incontrare	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	obl
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
zona	zona	NOUN	S	conj
contigua	contiguo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adibita	adibire	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
coinvolta	coinvolgere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
migranti	migrante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fermarla	fermare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoporla	sottopore la	VERB	V_PC	parataxis
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinvenuti	rinvenere	VERB	V	advcl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
confermino	confermare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
coinvolgimento	coinvolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
traffico	traffico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
migranti	migrante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sequestrarla	sequestrare la	VERB	V_PC	advcl
conducendo	conducere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Marina	Marina	PROPN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	fermere	VERB	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
concorrere	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-quater	9-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitati	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	obl
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Marina	Marina	PROPN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
multilaterali	multilaterale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nsubj
batte	battere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenienza	convenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-quinquies	9-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Marina	Marina	PROPN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
raccordo	raccordo	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
navali	navale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
interministeriale	interministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-sexies	9-sexies	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9-quater	9-quater	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
traffico	traffico	NOUN	S	obj
aereo	aereo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-septies	9-septies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
posizioni	posizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
Informativo	Informativo	ADJ	A	amod
Automatizzato	Automatizzato	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
predisposte	predispostere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
interconnessioni	interconnessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Centro	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
elaborazione	elaborazione	NOUN	S	compound
dati	dare	NOUN	V	nmod
interforze	interforza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	nmod
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1987/2006	1987/2006	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
Automatizzato	Automatizzato	PROPN	SP	flat:name
di	di	ADP	E	case
Identificazione	Identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Impronte	impronte	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
assicurato	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempestivo	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
gestione	gestione	ADJ	A	amod
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	V_PC	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Morte	Morte	PROPN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizza	organizza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanzia	finanzia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
compie	compiere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procurarne	procurare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
cittadina	cittadino	ADJ	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attuati	attuare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
tali	tale	PRON	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoponendole	sottoponendola	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
inumano	inumano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degradante	degradante	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
voluta	volere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	conj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravissime	gravissimo	VERB	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	nsubj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravissime	gravissimo	VERB	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
114	114	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aggravanti	aggravante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
equivalenti	equivalente	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
queste	questo	PRON	PD	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	obl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretta	direggere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	obl
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
entrato	entrare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
sottraendosi	sottraere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinto	respingere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritto	prescritto	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dipeso	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocati	revocare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annullati	annullare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rifiutati	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
viaggi	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annullata	annullare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADJ	A	conj
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punto	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2017/2226	2017/2226	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduta	scadire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ricongiunto	ricongiunto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettività	effettività	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legami	legame	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
coattivamente	coattivamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
identificato	identificare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiere	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
esterne	esterno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
destinatario	destinatario	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reingresso	reingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14-bis	14-bis	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
opera	opera	VERB	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-quater	2-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2017/2226	2017/2226	NUM	N	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
biometrici	biometrico	ADJ	A	amod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifiche	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
frontiere	frontiere	NOUN	S	compound
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2016/399	2016/399	NUM	N	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-quinquies	2-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificate	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compilazione	compilazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modulo	modulo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
viaggi	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	case
assenti	assente	NOUN	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
limitrofo	limitrofo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rintraccio	rintraccio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
potrà	potere	AUX	VM	aux
far	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pervenire	pervenire	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
postale	postale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-sexies	2-sexies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
innanzi	innanzi	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
consolare	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
gravame	gravame	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impugnativa	impugnativo	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
negarlo	negare lo	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inderogabili	inderogabile	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imputati	imputato	NOUN	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
comunica	comunico	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	osto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	VERB	V	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	xcomp
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provveda	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
235	235	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	conj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
14a	14a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
applichi	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
391	391	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ricorra	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	S	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
negato	negare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
estinta	estinta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
13-bis	13-bis	PROPN	SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
13-ter	13-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14	14	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
espulso	espulso	ADJ	A	amod
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux
proceduto	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
345	345	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scarcerato	scarcerare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ripristinata	ripristinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
307	307	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-septies	3-septies	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliare	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj
residui	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliare	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eseguiti	eseguito	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
convertono	convertire	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ragguaglio	ragguaglio	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinta	respingere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	obl
infondata	infondato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fraudolenta	fraudolengere	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
osservato	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partenza	partenza	NOUN	S	obl
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
violato	violare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5.2	5.2	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
16	16	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5.1	5.1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
configura	configurare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorra	ricorra	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
accerti	accerti	VERB	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	il	PRON	PC	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
mancato	mancare	VERB	V	amod
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
atta	attare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
agevolmente	agevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
rintracciato	rintracciare	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
avere	avere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	obl
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attestato	attestare	VERB	V	conj
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottemperato	ottemperare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
violato	violare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5.2	5.2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
immediato	immediare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partenza	partenza	NOUN	S	nmod
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	ADJ	A	amod
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14-ter	14-ter	PROPN	SP	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
intima	intima	ADJ	A	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
lasciare	lasciare	VERB	V	acl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
compreso	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
30	30	NUM	N	conj
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
congruo	congruo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commisurato	commisurare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
frequentano	frequentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
legami	legame	NOUN	S	conj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	ADJ	A	amod
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14-ter	14-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
questura	questura	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	compound
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvisa	avvisare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
10-bis	10-bis	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
destinatario	destinatario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5.1	5.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
questura	questura	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partenza	partenza	NOUN	S	nmod
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
schede	scheda	NOUN	S	obl
informative	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
plurilingue	plurilingue	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5.2	5.2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Laddove	laddove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partenza	partenza	NOUN	S	nmod
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	obl
lecite	lecito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionato	proporzionato	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
concesso	concesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	PI	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tre	tre	NUM	N	conj
mensilità	mensilità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
restituire	restituire	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
partenza	partenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
individuato	individuare	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
agevolmente	agevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
rintracciato	rintracciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
orari	orario	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
territorialmente	territorialmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
memorie	memorio	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalidare	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificate	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocate	revocare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
18.000	18.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
f	f	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	ROOT
comunica	comunico	ADJ	S	amod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
territorialmente	territorialmente	ADJ	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
avvertito	avvertire	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
anch'	anche	ADV	B	advmod
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
informato	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
munito	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sprovvisto	sprovvisto	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
transitorie	transitoria	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
271	271	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
appositamente	appositamente	ADV	B	advmod
delegati	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
comparso	comparso	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
espulso	espulso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definito	definire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posti	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Centri	Centri	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
ubicati	ubicato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circondario	circondario	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
permangono	permangono	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	obl
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nsubj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
locali	locale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
garantiscono	garantiscono	VERB	V	ROOT
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assicurino	assicurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	PC	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
diventa	diventare	VERB	V	ROOT
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	lo	DET	PC	det
convalida	convalidare	NOUN	V	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservato	osservare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Avverso	avverso	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
proponibile	proponibile	ADJ	A	amod
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obl
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis.1	5-bis.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisivo	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aula	aula	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
direttoriale	direttoriale	ADJ	A	amod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tempestività	tempestività	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
questure	questura	NOUN	S	nsubj
forniscono	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	obj
occorrente	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
locale	locale	NOUN	S	nmod
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	obl
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
conosciuta	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
francese	francese	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inglese	inglese	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spagnola	spagnolo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
ministeriale	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
espulso	espulso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinviato	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
destinatario	destinatario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rientrare	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
espulso	espulso	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obl
immediato	immediare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
espulso	espulso	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13-bis	13-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reingresso	reingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
denunciato	denunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
espulso	espulso	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
reingresso	reingresso	NOUN	V	xcomp
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
13-ter	13-ter	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13-bis	13-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnato	assegnato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
fornisca	fornire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
lasciato	lasciare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14-bis	14-bis	ADV	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1987/2006	1987/2006	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquis	acquis	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14-ter	14-ter	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
entrati	entrare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinviato	rinviare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	PI	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
obiettivi	obiettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
giunto	giungere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
miliardi	miliardo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
miliardi	miliardo	NOUN	S	nmod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13-bis	13-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	csubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
immediatezza	immediatezza	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
transitorie	transitorio	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ostacolano	ostacolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimpatri	rimpatro	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicino	vicino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posto	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiere	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
legittimano	legittimare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	obj
rientrano	rientrano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quelle	quello	DET	DD	nmod
riconducibili	riconducibile	NOUN	S	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
supplementari	supplementare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1.1	1.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	csubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
immediatezza	immediatezza	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannati	condannare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	A	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	V	acl:relcl
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provengano	provengere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1.2	1.2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
cooperare	cooperare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
soggiornato	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
transitato	transitare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consentendo	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-ter	10-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
restituire	restituire	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
partenza	partenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
individuato	individuare	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
agevolmente	agevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
rintracciato	rintracciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
orari	orario	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
territorialmente	territorialmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
memorie	memorio	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalidare	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificate	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocate	revocare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
18.000	18.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
immediato	immediare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurati	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
adeguati	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
standard	standard	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
igienico	igienico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sanitari	sanitario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abitativi	abitativo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
tali	tale	PRON	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
status	status	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pieno	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurata	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
telefonica	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esterno	esterno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
trattenuto	trattenuto	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rivolgere	rivolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reclami	reclamo	NOUN	S	conj
orali	orale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scritti	scritto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
busta	busta	NOUN	S	nmod
chiusa	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Garante	Garante	PROPN	SP	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanti	garanto	NOUN	S	conj
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
locali	locale	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	A	amod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
territorialmente	territorialmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
avvertito	avvertire	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
anch'	anche	ADV	B	advmod
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
informato	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
munito	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sprovvisto	sprovvisto	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
transitorie	transitoria	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
271	271	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
appositamente	appositamente	ADV	B	advmod
delegati	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vicinanza	vicinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centro	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimpatri	rimpatro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
comparso	comparso	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservato	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
avverso	avverso	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisivo	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aula	aula	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
direttoriale	direttoriale	ADJ	A	amod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
centro	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
complessivi	complessivo	ADJ	DI	det
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
centro	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
venire	venire	VERB	V	ccomp
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottato	adottato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prorogare	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	obl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	compound
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonostante	nonostante	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
ragionevole	ragionevole	ADJ	A	amod
sforzo	sforzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
durata	durare	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardi	ritardo	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ottenimento	ottenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl:agent
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
carcerarie	carcerario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
detenuto	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
penitenziaria	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
avvia	avviare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessando	interessare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenuto	detenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicino	vicino	ADJ	A	amod
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tali	DET	DD	amod
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	acl
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
lasciare	lasciare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
trattenerlo	trattenere lo	VERB	V_PC	csubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimpatri	rimpatro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
concrete	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
emerga	emerga	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
prospettiva	prospettiva	NOUN	S	obj
ragionevole	ragionevole	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riaccolto	riaccogliere	VERB	V	conj
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	conj
sanzionatorie	sanzionatorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accompagnato	accompagnare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
raggiungere	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
onoraria	onorariare	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rientrare	rientrare	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-ter	5-ter	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sussista	sussistare	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	ADJ	A	amod
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14-ter	14-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
6.000	6.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Valutato	Valutato	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorrendone	ricorrendone	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	A	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-quater.1	5-quater.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
destinatario	destinatario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5-ter	5-ter	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
accerta	accerto	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-sexies	5-sexies	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
denunciato	denunciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-ter	5-ter	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	ROOT
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-septies	5-septies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	advcl
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
345	345	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
proponibile	proponibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
606	606	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
efficaci	efficace	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
allontani	allontanare	VERB	V	advcl
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	V	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
violata	violare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ripristinare	ripristinare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computato	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7.1	7.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-ter	10-ter	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rivolta	rivolta	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
impartiti	impartire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
riunite	riunito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
passiva	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
coinvolte	coinvolto	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzano	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirigono	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivolta	rivolta	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
voluta	volere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravissima	gravissimo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
voluta	volere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	nmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravissime	gravissimo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
morte	morto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dovrebbe	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
infliggersi	infliggere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
triplo	triplo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
venti	vento	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-ter	10-ter	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1-sexies	1-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
facoltativo	facoltativo	NOUN	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
381	381	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
382	382	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
colui	colui	PRON	PD	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
video	video	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fotografica	fotografico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	parataxis
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
autore	autore	NOUN	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-ter	7-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7-bis	7-bis	PROPN	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulate	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
proprietari	proprietario	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concessionari	concessionare	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aree	area	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
installazioni	installazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Eventuali	Eventuali	ADJ	A	amod
deroghe	deroga	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	obj
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14-bis	14-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fondo	fondo	PROPN	SP	nmod
rimpatri	rimpatro	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nsubj
rimpatri	rimpatro	ADJ	VA	amod
finalizzato	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
finanziare	finanziare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
confluiscono	confluiscere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	acl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	Fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
residua	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnata	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
istruttorie	istruttorio	ADJ	A	amod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14-ter	14-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Programmi	Programmi	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
assistito	assistito	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attua	attuare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
intergovernative	intergovernativo	ADJ	A	conj
esperte	esperta	NOUN	S	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimpatri	rimpatro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
attive	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrati	immigrato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	ADJ	A	amod
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
guida	guida	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	ADJ	A	amod
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tengano	tengare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
innanzitutto	innanzitutto	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vulnerabilità	vulnerabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
territori	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riammissione	riammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irregolarmente	irregolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	S	obl
questura	questuro	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
emessi	emesso	ADJ	A	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
13	13	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14	14	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5.2	5.2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14	14	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
questura	questura	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	amod
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvisa	avvisare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
10-bis	10-bis	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
immediato	immediare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
beneficiato	beneficiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottemperato	ottemperare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
intenazionale	intenazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
trattenuti	trattenuto	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Centri	Centri	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
rimangono	rimanere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Centro	Centro	PROPN	SP	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
partenza	partenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	ADJ	A	nmod
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	amod
assistito	assistito	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
rimpatri	rimpatro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14-bis	14-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	acl
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
europei	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Espulsione	Espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
381	381	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
proveniente	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
consolare	consolare	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avviare	avviare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
subito	subito	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Espulsione	Espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alternativa	alternativo	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	nmod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	obl
irrogare	irrogare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-bis	10-bis	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ostative	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sostituire	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
riguardi	riguardo	VERB	V	amod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
edittale	edittale	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
espulso	espulso	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	advcl
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
identificato	identificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
scontare	scontare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
residua	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
consumati	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
628	628	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
629	629	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
unificazione	unificazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espiata	espiare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
la	lo	PRON	PC	obj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
avvia	avviare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessando	interessare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
identificati	identificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
comunichi	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ccomp
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	conj
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistito	assistire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
permane	permanere	VERB	V	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estinta	estingere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rientrato	rientrare	VERB	V	advcl
illegittimamente	illegittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ripristinato	ripristinare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riprende	riprendere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alternativa	alternativo	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	ROOT
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rientrare	rientrare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	Salvo	ADV	A	discourse
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	csubj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
turbative	turbativa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
documentata	documentare	NOUN	S	obl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avverso	avverso	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
il	il	DET	RD	det
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
pende	pendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	ROOT
SULL'	SULL'	PROPN	SP	amod
INGRESSO	INGRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
IL	IL	DET	RD	det
SOGGIORNO	SOGGIORNO	PROPN	SP	conj
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ALLONTANAMENTO	ALLONTANAMENTO	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	conj
TERRITORIO	TERRITORIO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DELLO	DELLO	PROPN	SP	dep

STATO	STATO	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
CARATTERE	CARATTERE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
UMANITARIO	UMANITARIO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1958	1958	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
emergano	emergare	VERB	V	conj
concreti	concreto	ADJ	A	xcomp
pericoli	pericolo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tentativi	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizionamenti	condizionamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dedita	dedire	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	S	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Procuratore	Procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	conj
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizionamenti	condizionamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
criminale	criminale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attualità	attualità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
offerto	offrire	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	amod
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
criminale	criminale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sindaco	Sindaco	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
istituzionalmente	istituzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
preposti	preporre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzative	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vittime	vittima	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
versano	versare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tratta	tratta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esseri	essere	NOUN	S	nmod
umani	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
228	228	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	appos
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
emersione	emersione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
transitoria	transitorio	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
vitto	vitto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
228	228	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2003	2003	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	appos
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	SP	nmod
Unificata	Unificata	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definito	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
emersione	emersione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
reca	recare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
casi	caso	NOUN	S	amod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
occorrente	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	conj
incompatibile	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
segnalate	segnalare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengono	venire	VERB	V	conj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
giustificato	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatti	fare	VERB	V	acl
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ulteriormente	ulteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritto	iscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimissioni	dimissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
terminato	terminare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espiazione	espiazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	conj
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
concreta	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attualità	attualità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
miliardi	miliardo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
miliardi	miliardo	NOUN	S	nmod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Permesso	Permesso	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
vittime	vittima	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
domestica	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
558-bis	558-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
572	572	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
582	582	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
583	583	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
583-bis	583-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
605	605	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
612-bis	612-bis	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
domestica	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
emerga	emerga	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obl
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	case
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vittima	vittima	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
domestica	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
episodici	episodico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	conj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sessuale	sessuale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
psicologica	psicologico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	conj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
legate	legare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attualmente	attualmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
passato	passato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
affettiva	affettire	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
condivida	condivido	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
condiviso	condividere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vittima	vittima	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
reca	recare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
anagrafico	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
442	442	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatti	fare	VERB	V	acl
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritto	iscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attualità	attualità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	conj
emergano	emergare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
antiviolenza	antiviolenza	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
specializzati	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vittime	vittima	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
redatta	redavere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
incompatibile	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
segnalata	segnalare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coma	coma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengono	venire	VERB	V	conj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
giustificato	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
condannato	condannato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
domestica	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	SP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18-ter	18-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Permesso	Permesso	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
vittime	vittima	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
illecita	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
603-bis	603-bis	NUM	N	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
contribuisca	contribuire	VERB	V	conj
utilmente	utilmente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emersione	emersione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
immediatezza	immediatezza	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vittima	vittima	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
segnalate	segnalare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ispettorato	Ispettorato	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
reca	recare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
occorrente	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
anagrafico	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
442	442	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatti	fare	VERB	V	acl
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
incompatibile	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
segnalata	segnalare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengono	venire	VERB	V	conj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
giustificato	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
condannato	condannato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
603-bis	603-bis	NUM	N	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attestante	attestante	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
legittimamente	legittimo	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divieti	divieti	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
vulnerabili	vulnerabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporsi	dispore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persecuzione	persecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
razza	razza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
sesso	sesso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
orientamento	orientamento	NOUN	S	conj
sessuale	sessuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
religione	religione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
opinioni	opinione	NOUN	S	conj
politiche	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rischiare	rischiare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rinviato	rinviare	VERB	V	xcomp
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
protetto	proterre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persecuzione	persecuzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1.1	1.1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	advcl
fondati	fondato	VERB	V	xcomp
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
rischi	rischiare	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
tortura	tortura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	conj
inumani	inumano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degradanti	degradante	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
sistematiche	sistematico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
umani	umano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1.2	1.2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1.1	1.1	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporsi	dispore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accompagnati	accompagnato	VERB	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
seguire	seguire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	conj
espulsi	espellere	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
conviventi	convivere	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donne	donna	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravidanza	gravidanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2A	2A	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	ADP	E	nmod
-	-	NOUN	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
versano	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
patologie	patologia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adeguatamente	adeguatamente	ADV	B	advmod
curabili	curabile	ADJ	A	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
medico	medico	NOUN	S	conj
convenzionato	convenzionare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Servizio	servizio	NOUN	SP	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tali	tale	PRON	PD	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rientro	rientro	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	obl
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
attestato	attestare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	nsubj
finchè	finchè	PRON	PR	nmod
persistono	persistere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
debitamente	debitamente	ADV	B	advmod
certificate	certificato	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
respingimento	respingimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
affette	affere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anziani	anziano	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
monoparentali	monoparentale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vittime	vittima	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
violenze	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
psicologiche	psicologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fisiche	fisica	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sessuali	sessuale	ADJ	A	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debitamente	debitamente	ADV	B	advmod
accertate	accertato	VERB	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2A	2A	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
27	27	NUM	N	compound
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
376	376	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
1a	1a	VERB	V	case
s.s	s.s	PROPN	SP	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

2/08/2000	2/08/2000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
illegittimità	illegittimità	NOUN	S	obj
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ora	ora	ADV	B	advmod
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lett	lett	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
d.lgs	d.lgs	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

25	25	NUM	N	ROOT
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
estende	estendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marito	marito	NOUN	S	nmod
convivente	convivente	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donna	donna	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravidanza	gravidanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Misure	misure	NOUN	S	nmod
straordinarie	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	obl
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
preordinate	preordinare	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
umanitarie	umanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conflitti	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disastri	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
Europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	amod
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	ROOT
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	obl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
adottate	adottato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20-bis	20-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Permesso	Permesso	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
calamità	calamità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nsubj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dovrebbe	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	advcl
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	obj
versa	verso	VERB	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
contingente	contingente	ADJ	A	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
calamità	calamità	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rientro	rientro	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
calamità	calamità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
permangono	permangere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
calamità	calamità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
valido	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obj
i	il	DET	RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
restrizioni	restrizione	NOUN	S	obj
numeriche	numerico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	PROPN	SP	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
collaborano	collaborare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
adeguatamente	adeguatamente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riammissione	riammissione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
assegnate	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
preferenziale	preferenziale	ADJ	A	amod
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj
riservate	riservare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retta	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ascendenza	ascendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
chiedano	chiedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
elenco	elenco	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	obj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	advcl
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riammissione	riammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
24	24	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
cittadini	cittadino	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
limitati	limitato	ADJ	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rientrare	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fornite	fornito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
articolato	articolare	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tassi	tasso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
disoccupazione	disoccupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
infrannuali	infrannuale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
predisposti	predisporre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
suddivisi	suddividere	VERB	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
bacini	bacino	NOUN	S	conj
provinciali	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utenza	utenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
elaborati	elaborare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anagrafe	anagrafe	NOUN	S	obl:agent
informatizzata	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
possibili	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
private	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinari	ordinario	NOUN	S	nmod
stanziamenti	stanziamente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrati	immigrato	NOUN	S	nmod
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
previsionali	previsionale	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	obl
sostenibili	sostenibile	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
triennio	triennio	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assorbimento	assorbimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tessuto	tessuto	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
produttivo	produttivo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fare	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
iscrivano	iscrivare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
liste	lista	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
identificate	identificare	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specificando	specificare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
inoltro	inoltro	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
predisporre	predisporre	VERB	V	ROOT
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
integrati	integrare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reinserimento	reinserimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
laddove	laddove	SCONJ	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	conj
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
governi	governo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiedano	richiedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
predisporre	predisporre	VERB	V	xcomp
analoghi	analogo	NOUN	SP	obj
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	compound
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
anagrafe	anagrafe	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
informatizzata	informatizzato	ADJ	A	acl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzato	organizzare	VERB	A	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Istituto	Istituto	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I.N.P.S.	I.N.P.S.	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
questure	questura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
350	350	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
annui	annuare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indeterminato	indeterminare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinati	subordinato	ADJ	S	amod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indeterminato	indeterminare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
straniero	straniero	NOUN	V	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
instaurare	instaurare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indeterminato	indeterminare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indisponibilità	indisponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
idoneamente	idoneamente	ADV	B	advmod
documentata	documentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
avrà	avere	VERB	V	advcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	ROOT
nominativa	nominativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sistemazione	sistemazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alloggiativa	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritta	sottoscritta	ADJ	A	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
specificazione	specificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprensiva	comprensivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	ADP	E	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
asseverazione	asseverazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24-bis	24-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
esperita	esperita	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
negativo	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comunica	comunicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	V	cop
irricevibile	irricevibile	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
triennio	triennio	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
prova	provare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
irricevibile	irricevibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulti	risugliere	VERB	V	conj
emesso	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
emessa	emesso	VERB	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
straniero	straniero	NOUN	V	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentando	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	V	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
selezionate	selezionare	VERB	V	advcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettate	rispettare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	dep
osta	ostare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
numerici	numerico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualitativi	qualitativo	NOUN	S	conj
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5.01	5.01	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	V	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5.1	5.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminate	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
numerici	numerico	ADJ	A	amod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
eccedenti	eccedente	ADJ	V	acl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminate	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
risulti	risultare	ADJ	A	advcl
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	punct
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
favoreggiamento	favoreggiamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emigrazione	emigrazione	NOUN	S	conj
clandestina	clandestino	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclutamento	reclutamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
destinare	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prostituzione	prostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prostituzione	prostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impiegare	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
reato	reato	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-ter	5-ter	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presentati	presentato	ADJ	A	acl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
frode	frode	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
falsificati	falsificare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dipeso	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabili	imputabili	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
collegamenti	collegamento	NOUN	S	obl
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravvenuto	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24-bis	24-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conseguono	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-quinquies	5-quinquies	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	xcomp


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvenuta	avvenire	ADJ	A	amod
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
visto	visto	NOUN	S	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
rifiutata	rifiutare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	conj
osta	osta	NOUN	S	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
consolare	consolare	ADJ	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
consolare	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	conj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
avvengono	avvengere	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
portale	portale	ADJ	S	amod
informatico	informatico	NOUN	A	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscrivono	sottoscrivire	AUX	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
firmare	firmare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
autografa	autografo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
firmato	firmare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
autografa	autografo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
autografa	autografo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	osta	VERB	S	amod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
extracomunitario	extracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
munito	munire	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consolato	consolato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
questure	questura	NOUN	S	nsubj
forniscono	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
INAIL	INAIL	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
collegamenti	collegamento	NOUN	S	obl
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
anagrafiche	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevute	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	obj
anagrafico	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
condividere	condividere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

lo	il	DET	RD	det
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesse	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questure	questura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	osta	NOUN	S	amod
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
classificazioni	classificazione	NOUN	S	obl
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posto	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
extracomunitario	extracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
perde	perdere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
dimissioni	dimissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
unitario	unitario	NOUN	S	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
beneficiare	beneficiare	VERB	V	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
correlati	correlare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
residua	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
percepita	percepire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Decorso	decorso	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	conj
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
reddituali	reddituale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
occupa	occupare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	A	obj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
privi	privo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annullato	annullare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
5000	5000	NUM	N	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegato	impiegato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
occupati	occupato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
occupati	occupato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
minori	minore	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
12-ter	12-ter	PROPN	SP	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
stagionali	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
extracomunitario	extracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
conserva	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
maturati	maturare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
goderne	godere ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigenza	vigenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maturazione	maturazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sessantacinquesimo	sessantacinquesimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
contributivo	contributivo	ADJ	A	amod
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
patronato	patronato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
estese	estendere	ADJ	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prestino	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
regolare	regolare	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
extracomunitario	extracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
riqualificazione	riqualificazione	NOUN	S	conj
programmati	programmare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
statuti	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Corsi	Corsi	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
approvati	approvato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprenditori	imprenditore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
datori	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
produttivi	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
operanti	operante	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
civico	civico	ADJ	A	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
linguistica	linguistica	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
finalizzata	finalizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
mirato	mirare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
produttivi	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
mirato	mirare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
produttivi	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprenditoriali	imprenditoriale	ADJ	A	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apolide	Apolide	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	conj
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Alto	Alto	PROPN	SP	amod
Commissariato	Commissariato	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Nazioni	Nazioni	PROPN	S	nmod
Unite	Unite	PROPN	SP	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rifugiati	rifugiato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
transito	transito	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
completa	completare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzate	organizzare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbisogni	fabbisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
manifestati	manifestare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
produttivo	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	V	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
numerici	numerico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualitativi	qualitativo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5.1	5.1	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
corredata	corredare	VERB	S	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravvenuto	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24-bis	24-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conseguono	conseguire	VERB	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
linee	linea	NOUN	S	obj
guida	guida	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
predisposizione	predisposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
civico	civico	ADJ	A	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
linguistica	linguistica	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuarsi	effettuare si	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preferiti	preferire	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiamata	chiamata	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomi	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
seguito	seguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
agenzie	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
house	house	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
operanti	operanto	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	acl
percorsi	percorso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
transitoria	transitorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2023	2023	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2024	2024	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
articolazioni	articolazione	NOUN	S	conj
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
concordare	concordare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	obl
formativi	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accreditati	accreditare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
operanti	operante	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrati	immigrato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
civico	civico	ADJ	A	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
linguistica	linguistica	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ingressi	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
associati	associato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
instaurare	instaurare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
agricolo	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
turistico	turistico	ADJ	A	conj
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
alberghiero	alberghiero	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
nominativa	nominativo	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
richiesto	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	appos
5.01	5.01	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sistemazione	sistemazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alloggiativa	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoscritto	sottoscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provarne	provare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
specificate	specificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	conj
alloggiativa	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
canone	canone	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
eccessivo	eccessivo	ADJ	A	ROOT
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
canone	canone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decurtato	decurtare	VERB	V	ROOT
automaticamente	automaticamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
30-bis	30-bis	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1999	1999	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	csubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impiegano	impiegare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obj
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
temporali	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
unico	unico	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
cumulativa	cumulativo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comunichi	comunicare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
accolta	accolto	ADJ	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	NUM	N	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	xcomp
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenire	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
iscrive	iscrive	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obj
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inclusione	inclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
SIISL	SIISL	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
85	85	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	parataxis
prorogato	prorogato	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
offerta	offrire	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
datore	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADV	E	advmod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
datore	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
SIISL	SIISL	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
esonerato	esonerare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rientro	rientro	NOUN	S	nmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	nmod
visto	vedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
consolare	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rientrare	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
lavorare	lavorare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	NUM	N	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
lasciato	lasciare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rientro	rientro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
datore	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
mai	mai	ADV	B	advmod
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	xcomp
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
offerto	offrire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indeterminato	indeterminare	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	xcomp
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osta	NOUN	S	compound
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
visti	visto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	nmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	prima	ADJ	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
consolare	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
trasmetterne	trasmettere ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscrivono	sottoscrivire	AUX	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
firmare	firmare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
autografa	autografo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
firmato	firmare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
autografa	autografo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
autografa	autografo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	nmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nullaosta	nullaosta	NOUN	S	obj
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osta	NOUN	S	amod
pluriennali	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
insolvenza	insolvenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tassazione	tassazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
licenziamenti	licenziamento	NOUN	S	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
creare	creare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obj
vacante	vacante	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
cerca	cercare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
coprire	coprire	VERB	V	xcomp
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
falsificato	falsificato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatto	contraffare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfaceva	soddisfacere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
soggiorna	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
versare	versare	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	parataxis
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
corrisposte	corrisposta	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
occupa	occupare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uno	uno	PRON	PI	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
privi	privo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annullato	annullare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12-ter	12-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12-quinquies	12-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15-bis	15-bis	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mette	mettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	obj
privo	privo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obl
alloggiativa	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
canone	canone	NOUN	S	conj
eccessivo	eccessivo	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
trattiene	trattenere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
350	350	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
5.500	5.500	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
canone	canone	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
eccessivo	eccessivo	ADJ	A	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
risiedono	risiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
TFUE	TFUE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
distaccati	distaccare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
96/71	96/71	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
godono	godere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insieme	insieme	ADP	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescindere	prescindere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalenti	equivalere	VERB	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	SP	conj
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

17	17	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
reca	recare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24-bis	24-bis	NUM	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Verifiche	Verifiche	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingressi	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
congruità	congruità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
30-bis	30-bis	NUM	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
demandata	demandare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1979	1979	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
comparativamente	comparativamente	ADJ	A	amod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
aderisce	aderire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conferisce	conferire	VERB	V	conj
mandato	mandato	VERB	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
verifiche	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
congruità	congruità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
tengono	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatturato	fatturato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nmod
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifiche	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
asseverazione	asseverazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
asseverazione	asseverazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
comparativamente	comparativamente	ADJ	A	amod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	amod
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
impegnano	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
associati	associato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5.01	5.01	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	SP	nsubj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ispettorato	Ispettorato	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	conj
agricolo	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
erogazioni	erogazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
campione	campione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Previdenza	Previdenza	NOUN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionali	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
limitata	limitato	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
specificità	specificità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invalidità	invalidità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
vecchiaia	vecchiaia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
superstiti	superstite	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
infortuni	infortuno	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
malattie	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
malattie	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
maternità	maternità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
disoccupazione	disoccupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
involontaria	involontario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
versare	versare	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Istituto	Istituto	PROPN	SP	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimi	ultimo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenziale	assistenziale	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
attuativi	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ambiti	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuzioni	contribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ente	ente	ADJ	A	conj
assicuratore	assicuratore	NOUN	S	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	nmod
contributiva	contributivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26	26	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occasionale	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riservato	riservare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
Europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intenda	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artigianale	artigianale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	conj
società	società	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
capitali	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cariche	carica	NOUN	S	obl
societarie	societario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
intraprendere	intraprendere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
albi	albo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registri	registro	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiari	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	il	PRON	PC	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
sistemazione	sistemazione	NOUN	S	obl
alloggiativa	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	conj
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proveniente	provenire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	obl
lecite	lecito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevoli	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	osto	NOUN	V	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	il	PRON	PC	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
numerici	numerico	ADJ	A	amod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negato	negare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	obl
giorni	giorno	ADJ	A	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1941	1941	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
633	633	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
474	474	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
26-bis	26-bis	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ingresso	Ingresso	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
investitori	investitore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentano	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
2.000.000	2.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuti	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
500.000	500.000	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentativi	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitale	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
venture	venture	NOUN	S	nmod
capital	capital	ADJ	A	amod
costituiti	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
operanti	operanto	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
250.000	250.000	NUM	N	nummod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
start	start	NOUN	S	advcl
-	-	NOUN	FF	punct
up	up	NOUN	S	compound
innovativa	innovativo	ADJ	A	amod
iscritta	iscrivere	NOUN	S	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
179	179	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
221	221	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
filantropico	filantropico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000.000	1.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cultura	cultura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
scientifica	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
paesaggistici	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dimostrano	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	conj
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2.000.000	2.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
1.000.000	1.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importo	importo	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasferibile	trasferibile	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	ccomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
impegnano	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
filantropica	filantropico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rispettino	rispettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dimostrano	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
aggiunta	aggiunta	NOUN	S	obl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
definire	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesto	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
comprovante	comprovante	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferita	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
lecita	lecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
dettagliata	dettagliato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
positiva	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevuta	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
investitori	investitore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
visto	vedere	VERB	V	acl
investitori	investitore	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legale	legale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	nmod
premesse	premere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
reca	recare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	nmod
premesse	premere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
investitori	investitore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
biennale	biennale	ADJ	A	amod
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
investitori	investitore	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocabile	revocabile	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
comunica	comunico	NOUN	S	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dismesso	dismettere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
investitori	investitore	NOUN	S	nmod
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
esonerato	esonerare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	nmod
premesse	premere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
esonerato	esonerare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
investitori	investitore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
positiva	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comprovante	comprovante	ADJ	B	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
impiegata	impiegare	VERB	V	ccomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
investita	investire	VERB	V	advcl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
positiva	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevuta	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
investitori	investitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esibisce	esibire	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmette	trasmettere	NOUN	S	conj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
falsi	falso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	conj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondenti	rispondere	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vero	vero	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
648-bis	648-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
648-ter	648-ter	NUM	N	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
648-ter.1	648-ter.1	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
12-quinquies	12-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
306	306	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
356	356	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
27	27	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingressi	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplina	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visti	visto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ognuna	ognuno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
personale	personale	ADJ	A	conj
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
specializzato	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
filiali	filiale	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
estere	estero	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sedi	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lettori	lettore	NOUN	S	ROOT
universitari	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
madre	madre	NOUN	S	conj
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
professori	professore	NOUN	S	nsubj
universitari	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
accademico	accademico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
traduttori	traduttore	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interpreti	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
collaboratori	collaboratore	NOUN	S	appos
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	NUM	N	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
domestico	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
pieno	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	A	flat:name
residenti	residere	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trasferiscono	trasferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
domestico	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolgano	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
addestramento	addestramento	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	appos
marittimi	marittimi	ADJ	A	amod
occupati	occupato	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	DET	RD	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
retribuiti	retribuire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
retribuiti	retribuire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
stipulato	stipulare	ADJ	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	DET	DD	conj
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1655	1655	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1960	1960	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1369	1369	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	i	DET	RD	det
-	-	NOUN	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
arco	arco	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
antecedenti	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
partecipate	partecipato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	obl
consolidato	consolidato	ADJ	A	amod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
operanti	operare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
territori	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sedi	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
l	L	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	ROOT
occupati	occupato	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
circhi	circhio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spettacoli	spettacolo	NOUN	S	conj
viaggianti	viaggiare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
spettacoli	spettacolo	NOUN	S	nmod
lirici	lirico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
teatrali	teatrale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concertistici	concertistico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
balletto	balletto	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
n	n	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ballerini	ballerino	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artisti	artista	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
musicisti	musicista	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impiegare	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intrattenimento	intrattenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
artisti	artista	NOUN	S	acl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impiegare	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obj
musicali	musicale	ADJ	A	amod
teatrali	teatrale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cinematografici	cinematografico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
radiofoniche	radiofonico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
televisive	televisivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
private	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
folcloristiche	folcloristico	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

p	p	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	A	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
sportiva	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
professionistica	professionistica	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
q	q	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
giornalisti	giornalista	NOUN	S	nsubj
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
ufficialmente	ufficialmente	ADV	B	advmod
accreditati	accreditare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
retribuiti	retribuire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
quotidiani	quotidiano	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
periodici	periodico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
emittenti	emittente	NOUN	S	conj
radiofoniche	radiofonico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
televisive	televisivo	ADJ	A	conj
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
q	q	X	X	dep
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nomadi	nomado	NOUN	S	ROOT
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
remoto	remoto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
r	r	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
occasionale	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scambi	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giovani	giovane	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giovani	giovane	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
collocate	collocato	VERB	V	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

r	r	X	X	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
infermieri	infermiere	NOUN	S	ROOT
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
assunti	assumere	VERB	S	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
private	privato	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
i	i	ADJ	NO	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	S	acl:relcl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
retribuiti	retribuire	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
committente	committente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
nominativi	nominativo	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
distaccare	distaccare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attestante	attestante	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
-	-	PUNCT	FF	nmod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	conj
osti	ostare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
invia	invia	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obl
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	amod
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
garantiscono	garantisce	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiedere	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
medici	medico	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	conj
sanitari	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
delegazioni	delegazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
agonistiche	agonistico	ADJ	A	amod
organizzate	organizzare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
olimpico	olimpico	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Federazioni	Federazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
olimpico	olimpico	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzati	organizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
pertinente	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
delegazione	delegazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
organizzato	organizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delegazione	delegazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	nsubj
sanitari	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
cittadini	cittadino	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
godono	godere	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-sexies	1-sexies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
q	q	X	X	compound
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	V	amod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnologici	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
lavorare	lavorare	VERB	V	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
remoto	remoto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
autonoma	autonomo	PROPN	SP	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
svolgano	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
rischi	rischio	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettate	rispettare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contributivo	contributivo	ADJ	A	conj
vigenti	vigente	NOUN	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
turismo	turismo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomadi	nomado	NOUN	S	nmod
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
beneficiare	beneficiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-septies	1-septies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
marittimi	marittimo	ADJ	A	amod
chiamati	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imbarco	imbarco	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
battenti	battente	NOUN	V	nmod
bandiera	bandiera	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ormeggiate	ormeggiare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
porti	porto	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
bordo	bordo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
visto	vedere	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marittimi	marittimo	DET	DI	amod
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
chiamati	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imbarco	imbarco	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
crociera	crociera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-octies	1-octies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
discendente	discendente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanti	rilevante	NOUN	S	amod
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
emigrazione	emigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spettacolo	spettacolo	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
connesse	connesso	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
spettacoli	spettacolo	NOUN	S	nmod
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spettacolo	spettacolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
periferiche	periferico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	obl
osta	osta	NOUN	V	amod
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tra	tra	ADP	E	fixed
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
extracomunitario	extracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
entri	entro	ADJ	A	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spettacolo	spettacolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
cambiare	cambiare	VERB	V	ROOT
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenta	presenta	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Rimangono	Rimangono	VERB	V	ROOT
ferme	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
occupati	occupare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
frontalieri	frontaliero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinato	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
confinanti	confinante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
olimpico	olimpico	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CONI	CONI	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportivi	sportivo	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
sportiva	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
professionistico	professionistico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
retribuita	retribuitare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ripartire	ripartire	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
federazioni	federazione	NOUN	S	obl
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
CONI	CONI	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
delibera	delibera	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
vigilante	vigilante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
delibera	delibera	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tesseramento	tesseramento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stagione	stagione	NOUN	S	nmod
agonistica	agonistico	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vivai	vivao	NOUN	A	amod
giovanili	giovanile	ADJ	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27-bis	27-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ingresso	Ingresso	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	conj
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanarsi	emanare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2017	2017	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	nmod
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	compound
osta	osto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
promotrice	promotore	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Registro	Registro	PROPN	SP	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
RUN	RUN	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2017	2017	NUM	N	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
ecclesiastici	ecclesiastico	ADJ	A	amod
civilmente	civilmenta	ADJ	B	amod
riconosciuti	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1985	1985	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
civilmente	civilmenta	ADJ	B	amod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
confessioni	confessione	NOUN	S	nmod
religiose	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
stipula	stipulare	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
promotrice	promotore	VERB	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
specificate	specificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
assegnate	assegnare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impegnato	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	ROOT
stanziate	stanziare	ADJ	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vitto	vitto	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
sostenute	sostenuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentate	documentato	ADJ	A	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
percorso	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
promotrice	promotore	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
polizza	polizza	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurativa	assicurativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
infortuni	infortuno	NOUN	S	conj
collegati	collegare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

d)assunzione	d)assunzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.117	N.117	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2017	2017	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nmod
impegnato	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
retribuita	retribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
promotore	promotore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsate	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sostenute	sostenere	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentate	documentato	VERB	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
massimi	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
vietati	vietare	VERB	V	acl
rimborsi	rimborso	ADJ	DI	advcl
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
forfettario	forfettario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
promotrice	promotore	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sportello	Sportello	PROPN	SP	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Prefettura-Ufficio	Prefettura-Ufficio	PROPN	SP	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
Sportello	Sportello	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Questura	Questura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificata	verificare	ADJ	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	osto	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	NOUN	V	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettate	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presentati	presentato	ADJ	A	acl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tassazione	tassazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	osto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
occorrenti	occorrere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
reca	recare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
direttive	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanate	emanare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
convertibile	convertibile	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
falsificato	falsificato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatto	contraffare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfaceva	soddisfacere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
soggiorna	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
computabile	computabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27-ter	27-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ingresso	Ingresso	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dottorato	dottorato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	Paese	PROPN	SP	obl
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dia	dare	VERB	V	advcl
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dottorato	dottorato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denominato	denominare	VERB	V	acl
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
selezionato	selezionare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
elenco	elenco	ADJ	A	amod
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	obl
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
20-bis	20-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
22	22	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
42-bis	42-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	obl
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insieme	insieme	ADP	E	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescindere	prescindere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
godano	godere	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalenti	equivalere	VERB	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusi	concludere	VERB	A	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	conj
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Paesi	Paesi	PROPN	SP	conj
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
beneficiano	beneficiare	VERB	V	ccomp
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
status	status	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiornano	soggiornano	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quater	27-quater	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intrasocietario	intrasocietario	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	dep
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
intesa	intendere	VERB	V	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
creativo	creativo	ADJ	A	amod
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
sistematica	sistematico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
aumentare	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
bagaglio	bagaglio	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conoscenze	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uomo	uomo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cultura	cultura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
bagaglio	bagaglio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conoscenze	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
concepire	concepire	VERB	V	advcl
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
applicazioni	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
minime	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricercatori	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
consentito	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
connesse	connesso	ADJ	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3.Il	3.Il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
stipulano	stipulare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	parataxis
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accogliere	accogliere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
approvata	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
valutano	valutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
stimata	stimato	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
certificati	certificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertano	accertare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
messe	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
gravare	gravare	VERB	V	advcl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
stimata	stimato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
completare	completare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
secondi	secondo	NOUN	S	conj
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
nota	noto	ADJ	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizza	polizza	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurativa	assicurativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
stipulata	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	SP	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
caso	caso	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
benefici	beneficio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
Europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
estero	estero	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
assimilabile	assimilabile	ADJ	A	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
prioritariamente	prioritariamente	ADV	B	advmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	E	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tipologie	tipologia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
visto	visto	NOUN	V	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
sanabile	sanabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incompletezza	incompletezza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invitato	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
integrare	integrare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettate	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presentati	presentato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tassazione	tassazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidato	liquidare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
insolvenza	insolvenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-quater	4-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proporzionalità	proporzionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	conj
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
automaticamente	automaticamente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenti	conseguente	NOUN	S	nmod
adempimenti	adempimente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	osto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
occorrenti	occorrere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
reca	recare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
ricercatore	Ricercatore	PROPN	SP	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
borsa	borsa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
addestramento	addestramento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	NOUN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
multilaterali	multilaterale	NOUN	S	conj
comprendenti	comprendente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
borsa	borsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
addestramento	addestramento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
falsificato	falsificato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatto	contraffare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfaceva	soddisfacere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
soggiorna	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11-quinquies	11-quinquieso	NOUN	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11-quinquies	11-quinquies	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
risieduto	risiedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
visto	vedere	VERB	V	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
prescinde	prescindere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Lo	Lo	PRON	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
munito	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
completato	completare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
politica	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
attiva	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
cercare	cercare	VERB	V	acl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avviare	avviare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obj
coerente	coerente	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
completata	completato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
allega	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cop
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-quater	9-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuta	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
falsificata	falsificare	VERB	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatta	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfaceva	soddisfacere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	A	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatori	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
11	11	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11-quinquies	11-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
insegnamento	insegnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
compatibile	compatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
statutarie	statutario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

10-bis	10-bis	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riammesso	riammesso	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
oppone	opporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lunga	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durare	VERB	V	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	obl
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
arco	arco	NOUN	S	obl
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trecentosessanta	trecentosessanto	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lunga	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	obl
giorni	giorno	ADJ	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
arco	arco	NOUN	S	nmod
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trecentosessanta	trecentosessanto	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
gravare	gravare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	conj
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-bis	11-bis	SYM	X	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
entrare	entrare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accompagnare	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
raggiungere	raggiungere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
risieduto	risiedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-ter	11-ter	X	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
designata	designare	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	conj
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	compound
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	A	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
raggiunta	raggiungere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soddisfatte	soddisfatto	VERB	A	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-quater	11-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
presenti	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nsubj
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediato	ADV	B	advmod
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lasciano	lasciare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-quinquies	11-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	obl
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
visto	visto	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
presente	presente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-sexies	11-sexies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11-quinquies	11-quinquies	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
scade	scadere	VERB	V	acl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-septies	11-septies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
11-quinquies	11-quinquies	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
recante	recante	VERB	SP	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	nsubj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricercatore	Ricercatore	PROPN	SP	conj
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informate	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-octies	11-octies	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatore	ricercatore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11-quinquies	11-quinquies	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
superato	superare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
arco	arco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trecentosessanta	trecentosessanto	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-nonies	11-nonies	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-decies	11-decies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27-quater	27-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ingresso	Ingresso	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Rilascio	Rilascio	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominati	denominare	VERB	V	acl
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
retribuite	retribuire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
alternativamente	alternativamente	ADV	B	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
terziario	terziario	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
attesti	attestare	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
percorso	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
post	post	ADJ	A	amod
secondario	secondario	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	conj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Quadro	Quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualificazioni	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Quadro	Quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualificazioni	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciate	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
attestata	attestare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
paragonabile	paragonabile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
terziario	terziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	conj
specificato	specificato	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
vincolante	vincolante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
attestata	attestare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
pertinente	pertinente	ADV	B	advmod
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specialisti	specialista	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ISCO-08	ISCO-08	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
n.	numero	NOUN	S	conj
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
soggiornanti	soggiornantare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	ROOT
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolari	titolare	ADJ	S	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	obl
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
20-bis	20-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
22	22	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
42-bis	42-bis	PROPN	SP	dep
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
chiedono	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricercatori	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-ter	27-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
beneficiano	beneficiare	VERB	V	ccomp
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
status	status	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiornano	soggiornano	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
virtù	virtù	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impegni	impegno	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
agevola	agevolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
connesse	connere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
investimenti	investimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
societari	societare	NOUN	S	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
distaccati	distaccato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	i	ADJ	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
96/71	96/71	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
così	così	ADV	B	cc
come	come	ADP	E	fixed
recepita	recepire	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	ADJ	PC	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
virtù	virtù	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusi	concludere	VERB	A	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
beneficiano	beneficiano	VERB	V	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
l	l	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visti	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolati	regolare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
vincolante	vincolare	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	advcl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricavato	ricavare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
vincolante	vincolante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
stipulati	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
comparativamente	comparativamere	VERB	V	acl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
media	medio	ADJ	A	amod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
lorda	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISTAT	ISTAT	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
riguardi	riguardo	ADJ	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	csubj
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
verificati	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	xcomp
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
centro	centro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
riguardi	riguardo	ADJ	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accedono	accedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescindere	prescindere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
vincolante	vincolante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formulate	formulare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	amod
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
trovarsi	trovare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Questore	Questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
frode	frode	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
falsificati	falsificare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dipeso	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
revoche	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
collegamenti	collegamento	NOUN	S	obl
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
risulti	risultare	ADJ	A	advcl
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	xcomp
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
favoreggiamento	favoreggiamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emigrazione	emigrazione	NOUN	S	conj
clandestina	clandestino	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclutamento	reclutamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
destinare	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prostituzione	prostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prostituzione	prostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impiegare	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Questore	Questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UÈ	UÈ	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	obl
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permessò	permessò	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
instaurazione	instaurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	Legge	NOUN	S	compound
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	nmod
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
510	510	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
608	608	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
biennale	biennale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-bis	11-bis	SYM	X	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	ROOT
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
reca	recare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
annotazioni	annotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Protezione	Protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
data	data	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
avanzata	avanzare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
trascritte	trascritto	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fotografia	fotografia	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-ter	11-ter	X	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
elencate	elencare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2021/1883	2021/1883	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
reca	recare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
annotazioni	annotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Professione	professione	NOUN	SP	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
elencata	elencare	VERB	V	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
falsificato	falsificato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatto	contraffare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfaceva	soddisfacere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
soggiorna	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alternativamente	alternativamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	PRON	PC	obj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disoccupazione	disoccupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
revocare	revocare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	obj
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rifiutarne	rifiutare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	obj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rispetta	rispettare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proporzionalità	proporzionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13-ter	13-ter	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
cambiamenti	cambiamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Direzioni	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorsi	Decorsi	VERB	V	advcl
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
offerta	offrire	VERB	V	conj
vincolante	vincolante	VERB	B	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13-bis	13-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
disoccupazione	disoccupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
cercare	cercare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
occasionale	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretto	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
attengono	attengono	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riservate	riservare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
SEE	SEE	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
beneficiano	Beneficiano	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
riservato	riservare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistendone	sussistendone	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soddisfatte	soddisfatto	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
complete	completo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	conj
contemporaneamente	contemporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	obl
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

17	17	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
arco	arco	NOUN	S	obl
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spostandosi	spostare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
trasferito	trasferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
indica	indico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	obj
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debitamente	debitamente	ADV	B	advmod
giustificate	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
connesse	connere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informandone	informandone	NOUN	S	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
27-sexies	27-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
soggiorna	soggiornare	VERB	V	advcl
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	ROOT
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	parataxis
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obj
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	amod
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
27-quater	27-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Questore	Questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informato	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	obj
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	obj
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nsubj
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduta	scadire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
riammesso	riammesso	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-ter	12-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12-quinquies	12-quinquieso	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	S	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
risieduto	risiedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
familiare	familiare	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
trovano	trovano	VERB	A	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

18-bis	18-bis	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	obj
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicate	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
siti	sito	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
made	made	X	SW	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italy	Italy	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vasta	vasto	ADJ	A	amod
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
camere	camera	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	conj
inseriscono	inseriscere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
siti	sito	NOUN	S	obl
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obj
dedicata	dedicare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
blu	blu	ADJ	A	amod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
18-ter	18-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogniqualvolta	ogniqualvolto	ADJ	A	conj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fattore	fattore	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
bassa	basso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
consentite	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	obj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2021/1883	2021/1883	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evoluzione	evoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
redige	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
quadriennale	quadriennale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2021/1883	2021/1883	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prioritariamente	prioritariamente	ADV	B	advmod
presi	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

18-quater	18-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	conj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
forniscono	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
direttoriale	direttoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
guida	guida	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ingresso	Ingresso	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
societari	societare	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
societari	societare	NOUN	S	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
chiedono	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
specializzati	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ossia	ossia	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conoscenze	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
specialistiche	specialistico	ADJ	A	amod
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
conoscenze	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luce	luce	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
elevata	elevato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inclusa	includere	VERB	V	acl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
albo	albo	ADJ	A	amod
professionale	professionale	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ossia	ossia	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diploma	diploma	NOUN	S	nmod
universitario	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carriera	carriera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
retribuiti	retribuire	VERB	V	conj
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
distacco	distacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legato	legare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dura	durare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2359	2359	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitanti	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
filiale	filiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasferito	trasferito	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
filiale	filiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiedono	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricercatori	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-ter	27-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
virtù	virtù	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusi	concludere	VERB	A	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	conj
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
beneficiano	beneficiere	NOUN	V	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalenti	equivalere	VERB	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavorano	lavorare	VERB	V	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
somministrato	somministrato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
pieno	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
supervisione	supervisione	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
percorso	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
nominativa	nominativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prefettura-Ufficio	prefettura-Ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indica	indico	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
lavorato	lavorare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
ininterrotti	ininterrotto	ADJ	A	amod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ubicazione	ubicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	conj
ospitanti	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ricoprirà	ricoprirà	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
specializzato	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	conj
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
farà	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
regolamentata	regolamentare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
piano	piano	NOUN	S	appos
formativo	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
formativi	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	VERB	V	advcl
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	nmod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
incide	incidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
completezza	completezza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
sanabile	sanabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incompletezza	incompletezza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invitata	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
integrare	integrare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	A	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
regolarizzazione	regolarizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
pareri	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ispettorato	Ispettorato	PROPN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Uffici	Uffici	NOUN	S	nmod
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	osta	ADJ	S	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30-bis	30-bis	DET	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	advmod
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
specializzati	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intercorrere	intercorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	ROOT
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
societari	societario	NOUN	S	nmod
beneficiano	beneficiano	VERB	V	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
beneficiano	Beneficiano	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
riservato	riservare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adesione	adesione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	conj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
erogazione	erogazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
unionale	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1231/2010	1231/2010	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	V	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
presentata	presentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	advmod
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	conj
osti	ostare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	appos
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
invia	inviare	VERB	V	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	ROOT
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
incide	incidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
garantite	garantire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettate	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trascorso	trascorrere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervallo	intervallo	NOUN	S	nsubj
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presentati	presentato	ADJ	A	acl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
falsificati	falsificare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	conj
principalmente	principalmente	ADV	B	advmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	conj
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
f	f	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proporzionalità	proporzionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	conj
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

17	17	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	xcomp
recante	recare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	appos
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	amod
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comunicarne	comunicare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
falsificato	falsificato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatto	contraffare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfaceva	soddisfacere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
soggiorna	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
raggiunta	raggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

19	19	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	conj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

20	20	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
durata	durare	VERB	V	ROOT
pari	pari	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distacco	distacco	NOUN	S	nmod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

21	21	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

22	22	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

23	23	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riammesso	riammesso	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
oppone	opporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lunga	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durare	VERB	V	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
arco	arco	NOUN	S	obl
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lunga	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

25	25	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

26	26	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
privi	privo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-ter	12-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12-quinquies	12-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27-sexies	27-sexies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Stranieri	Stranieri	NOUN	SP	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intra	intro	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
filiale	filiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
filiale	filiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
arco	arco	NOUN	S	nmod
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
filiale	filiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
filiale	filiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	osto	VERB	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indica	indicare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
f	f	NOUN	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
h	h	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	V	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
presentata	presentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	advmod
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	obl
osti	ostare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
invita	invitare	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
osta	osta	NOUN	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettate	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
f	f	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lunga	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	amod
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comunicarne	comunicare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
durata	durare	VERB	V	ROOT
pari	pari	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sportello	sportello	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	xcomp
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
risieduto	risiedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ICT	ICT	PROPN	SP	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annullato	annullare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-ter	12-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12-quinquies	12-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DIRITTO	DIRITTO	NOUN	S	nmod
ALL'	ALL'	DET	E_RD	case
UNITÀ	UNITÀ	PROPN	SP	nummod
FAMILIARE	FAMILIARE	PROPN	SP	amod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
TUTELA	TUTELA	PROPN	SP	conj
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
MINORI	MINORI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
riacquistare	riacquistare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
religiosi	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
maturato	maturare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
ininterrotto	ininterrotto	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
Europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
continuano	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicarsi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
el	el	ADJ	A	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1965	1965	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1656	1656	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevoli	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giurisdizionali	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	conj
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preso	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fanciullo	fanciullo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fanciullo	fanciullo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29	29	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ricongiungimento	Ricongiungimento	PROPN	SP	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

coniuge	coniugere	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nati	nascere	VERB	V	conj
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
coniugati	coniugato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistente	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	ROOT
maggiorenni	maggiorenne	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
oggettive	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
invalidità	invalidità	NOUN	S	obj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	advcl
altri	altro	DET	DI	amod
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
ultrasessantacinquenni	ultrasessantacinquenno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impossibilitati	impossibilitare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
sostentamento	sostentamento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
documentati	documentato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stati	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
documentati	documentare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
certo	certo	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	conj
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	aux
fondati	fondare	VERB	V	conj
dubbi	dubbio	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
autenticità	autenticità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
DNA	DNA	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
acido	acido	NOUN	S	nmod
desossiribonucleico	desossiribonucleico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessare	VERB	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
coniugato	coniugare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
minori	minore	ADJ	A	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
29-bis	29-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	ROOT
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
igienico	igienico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sanitari	sanitario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	conj
abitativa	abitativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
comunali	comunale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
effettivamente	effettivamente	NOUN	S	nsubj
dimorerà	dimorare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	ROOT
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	obl
lecite	lecito	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
aumentato	aumentare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ricongiungere	ricongiungere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obl
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
conviventi	convivere	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	obl
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
rischi	rischio	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ascendente	ascendente	ADJ	A	amod
ultrasessantacinquenne	ultrasessantacinquenne	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	SP	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
determinarsi	determinare si	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	mark
aggiornarsi	aggiornare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
biennale	biennale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occasionale	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
religiosi	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dimostri	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inviata	inviare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sportello	Sportello	PROPN	SP	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prefettura	prefettura	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
ricevuta	ricevuto	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ostativi	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	osta	VERB	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autenticità	autenticità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
consolare	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comprovante	comprovante	ADJ	B	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coniugio	coniugio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
63	63	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
respinta	respintare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
entrare	entrare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
status	status	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
85	85	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20-bis	20-bis	PROPN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	DET	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29-bis	29-bis	PROPN	FC	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ricongiungimento	Ricongiungimento	PROPN	SP	appos
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifugiati	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
status	status	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiali	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provino	provare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	obj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
status	status	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
inaffidabilità	inaffidabilità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
consolare	consolare	ADJ	V	amod
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	obj
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifiche	verificho	ADJ	A	amod
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessare	VERB	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provare	provare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
tratti	tratti	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ritenuti	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
motivato	motivare	VERB	V	ROOT
unicamente	unico	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
probatori	probatore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accompagnato	accompagnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	nmod
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
30	30	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Permesso	Permesso	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatti	Fatti	NOUN	S	obl
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
familiare	familiare	ADJ	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	obl
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	NUM	N	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
contratto	contrarre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	NOUN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	A	flat:name
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
posseduto	possedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
detto	dire	VERB	V	amod
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rifugiato	rifugiato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
prescinde	prescindere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
italiano	italiano	NOUN	S	conj
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescindere	prescindere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
privato	privare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
potestà	potestà	NOUN	S	obl
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
seguita	seguire	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	obj
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
nata	nascere	VERB	V	advcl
prole	prole	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rigettata	rigettare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
permettere	permettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermi	fermo	ADJ	A	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	conj
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
carta	carta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diciottesimo	diciottesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermi	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	ostare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	case
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	nmod
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nsubj
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
convivente	convivente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	advmod
segue	seguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
convive	convivo	ADJ	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	det:poss
convive	convivo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1983	1983	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
segue	seguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
occasionale	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
psicofisico	psicofisico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengono	venire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
cessare	cessare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
giustificavano	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiare	familiare	ADJ	S	amod
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	A	amod
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1983	1983	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
prescinde	prescindere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	V	conj
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accompagnati	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1983	1983	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoposti	sottoposto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
parere	parere	NOUN	S	conj
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accompagnati	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
civile	civile	ADJ	A	conj
gestito	gestire	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privare	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritto	iscrivere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis.1	1-bis.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
demandata	demandare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1979	1979	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
comparativamente	comparativamente	ADJ	A	amod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
aderisce	aderire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conferisce	conferire	VERB	V	conj
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravvenuto	sopravvenuto	ADJ	S	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
consegue	conseguire	VERB	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	conj
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	amod
gestore	gestore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provare	provare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
meno	meno	PRON	B	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
seguito	seguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
meno	meno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
frequenta	frequentare	VERB	S	conj
corsi	corso	ADJ	A	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
retribuita	retribuire	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
iniziato	iniziare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portato	portare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33	33	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vigilare	vigilare	VERB	V	acl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
coordinare	coordinare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministeri	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Associazione	Associazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ANCI	ANCI	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UPI	UPI	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentative	NOUN	S	amod
operanti	operante	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fanciullo	fanciullo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
entrano	entrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
solidaristici	solidaristico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
promossi	promottere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accompagnati	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impulso	impulso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
raccordo	raccordo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
assistito	assistito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricongiungimento	ricongiungimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	conj
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accompagnato	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
umane	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziarie	finanziaria	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	conj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
IN	IN	PROPN	E	case
MATERIA	MATERIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
SANITARIA	SANITARIA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
NONCHÈ	NONCHÈ	PROPN	SP	nsubj
DI	DI	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ISTRUZIONE	ISTRUZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ALLOGGIO	ALLOGGIO	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
PARTECIPAZIONE	PARTECIPAZIONE	PROPN	SP	appos
ALLA	ALLA	ADP	E_RD	case
VITA	VITA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PUBBLICA	PUBBLICA	PROPN	S	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
INTEGRAZIONE	INTEGRAZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj
SOCIALE	SOCIALE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	ROOT
IN	IN	PROPN	SP	case
MATERIA	MATERIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
SANITARIA	SANITARIA	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34	34	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assistenza	Assistenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	SP	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	SP	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
parità	parità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
uguaglianza	uguaglianza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
attiene	attenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
contributivo	contributivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
erogata	erogare	VERB	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	servizio	NOUN	SP	obl:agent
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
validità	validità	NOUN	S	conj
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
regolari	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
sussidiaria	sussidiario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	obl
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
attesa	atteso	NOUN	S	amod
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	ROOT
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accompagnati	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segnalazioni	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ritrovamento	ritrovamento	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurato	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
fin	fino	ADP	B	case
dalla	da il	DET	E_RD	det
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rientrante	rientrante	ADV	B	advmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurarsi	assicurare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
malattie	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
infortunio	infortunio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
maternità	maternità	NOUN	S	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
polizza	polizza	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurativa	assicurativo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurativo	assicurativo	ADJ	A	amod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valida	valido	ADJ	A	advcl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corrisposto	corrisposto	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
percentuale	percentuale	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanità	sanità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2.000	2.000	NUM	N	nummod
annui	annuo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
titolari	titolare	PROPN	S	flat:name
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
collocati	collocare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Strasburgo	Strasburgo	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
24	24	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1969	1969	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
304	304	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
corrispondere	corrispondere	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	obj
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
forfettario	forfettario	ADJ	A	amod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
700	700	NUM	N	nummod
annui	annuo	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
1.200	1.200	NUM	N	nummod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
valido	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adeguati	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISTAT	ISTAT	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indice	indice	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
operai	operaio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	S	conj
verificatasi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
assicurato	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritto	iscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	obl
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assistenza	Assistenza	NOUN	SP	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	SP	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
erogate	erogare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	SP	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
corrisposte	corrisposta	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	conj
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
trattati	trattato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
multilaterali	multilaterale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoscritti	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
assicurate	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidi	presidio	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accreditati	accreditare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cure	cura	NOUN	S	conj
ambulatoriali	ambulatoriale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ospedaliere	ospedaliere	VERB	V	conj
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
continuative	continuativa	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
infortunio	infortunio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estesi	estendere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
medicina	medicina	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
salvaguardia	salvaguardia	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
collettiva	collettivo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantiti	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fanciullo	fanciullo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
vaccinazioni	vaccinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
campagne	campagna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
collettiva	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
profilassi	profilassi	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
profilassi	profilassi	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
diagnosi	diagnosi	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
malattie	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
infettive	infettivo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
bonifica	bonifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	NOUN	S	nmod
focolai	focolai	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
erogate	erogare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedenti	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
privi	privo	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comportare	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
referto	referto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ospedaliere	ospedaliere	VERB	V	xcomp
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
recati	recare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimanenti	rimanente	ADJ	A	amod
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
contemplate	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
privi	privo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	Fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
riferiti	riferire	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
emergenza	emergenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
36	36	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ingresso	Ingresso	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
cure	cura	NOUN	S	obj
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
accompagnatore	accompagnatore	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
visto	visto	VERB	V	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessati	interessato	VERB	V	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
prescelta	prescelta	ADV	B	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indichi	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
terapeutico	terapeutico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
attestare	attestare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
cauzionale	cauzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
presumibile	presumibile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
richieste	richiesta	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentare	documentare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vitto	vitto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnatore	accompagnatore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalescenza	convalescenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	V	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
umanitari	umanitare	ADJ	A	amod
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
517	517	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanità	sanità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
ospedaliere	ospedaliere	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsate	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
sostenute	sostenuto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
terapeutico	terapeutico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	conj
finchè	finchè	NOUN	SP	mark
durano	durare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obj
terapeutiche	terapeutico	ADJ	A	amod
documentate	documentato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
profilassi	profilassi	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
IN	IN	PROPN	E	case
MATERIA	MATERIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
SANITARIA	SANITARIA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

NONCHÈ	NONCHÈ	PROPN	SP	ROOT
DI	DI	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ISTRUZIONE	ISTRUZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ALLOGGIO	ALLOGGIO	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
PARTECIPAZIONE	PARTECIPAZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj
ALLA	ALLA	ADP	E_RD	case
VITA	VITA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PUBBLICA	PUBBLICA	PROPN	S	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
INTEGRAZIONE	INTEGRAZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj
SOCIALE	SOCIALE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
IN	IN	ADP	E	case
MATERIA	MATERIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
ISTRUZIONE	ISTRUZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DIRITTO	dIRITTO	PROPN	S	nmod

ALLO	ALLO	PROPN	SP	det
STUDIO	STUDIO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
PROFESSIONE	PROFESSIONE	ADV	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
37	37	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
abilitanti	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	dep
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ordini	Ordini	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
Collegi	Collegi	PROPN	SP	conj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
sprovviste	sprovvista	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
albi	albo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
istituire	istituire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministeri	ministeri	PROPN	SP	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
albi	albo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	V_PC	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
usufruire	usufruire	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
soprannumero	soprannumero	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diploma	diploma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
laurea	laurea	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
specializzazione	specializzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
temporali	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
abilitanti	abilitanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
scientifica	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnologica	tecnologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Ordini	Ordini	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
l	L	X	X	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
iscriversi	iscrivere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ordini	Ordini	NOUN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Collegi	Collegi	PROPN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
percentuali	percentuale	NOUN	S	conj
massime	massima	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
garantita	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
retributivo	retributivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previdenziale	previdenziale	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
IN	IN	PROPN	E	case
MATERIA	MATERIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
SANITARIA	SANITARIA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

NONCHÈ	NONCHÈ	PROPN	SP	ROOT
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
ISTRUZIONE	ISTRUZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ALLOGGIO	ALLOGGIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
PARTECIPAZIONE	PARTECIPAZIONE	PROPN	SP	appos
ALLA	ALLA	ADP	E_RD	case
VITA	VITA	PROPN	SP	nmod
PUBBLICA	PUBBLICA	PROPN	S	compound
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
INTEGRAZIONE	INTEGRAZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
SOCIALE	SOCIALE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
IN	IN	ADP	E	case
MATERIA	MATERIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
ISTRUZIONE	ISTRUZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISE	DISE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DIRITTO	DIRITTO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

ALLO	ALLO	PROPN	SP	amod
STUDIO	STUDIO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
PROFESSIONE	PROFESSIONE	ADV	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38	38	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
scolastico	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
educativi	educativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
scolastica	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
effettività	effettività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
garantita	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attivazione	attivazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apprendimento	apprendimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nsubj
scolastica	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
differenze	differenza	NOUN	S	obj
linguistiche	linguistico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
reciproco	reciproco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
culture	cultura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tolleranza	tolleranza	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
favorisce	favorire	VERB	V	conj
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
volte	volgere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cultura	cultura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
interculturali	interculturale	ADJ	A	amod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
realizzate	realizzare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rilevazione	rilevazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bisogni	bisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
integrata	integrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5.Le	5.Le	NUM	N	nummod
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl
scolastiche	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
Regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
adulti	adulto	ADJ	A	amod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attivazione	attivazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alfabetizzazione	alfabetizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuole	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
elementari	elementare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
medie	medio	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
adulti	adulto	ADJ	V	acl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	advmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendano	intendare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
predisposizione	predisposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
percorsi	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
integrativi	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenuti	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diploma	diploma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
secondaria	secondario	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
scuole	scuola	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
universitari	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Analogamente	analogamente	NOUN	B	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emigrati	emigrato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tornano	tornano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attuati	attuare	VERB	V	ROOT
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	xcomp
insegnamenti	insegnamento	NOUN	A	amod
integrativi	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingue	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cultura	cultura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dettate	dettare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
locali	locale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivazione	attivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
intensivi	intensivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
ispettivo	ispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttivo	direttivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
docente	docente	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuole	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adattamento	adattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
insegnamento	insegnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	conj
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
scolastico	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alunni	alunno	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ausilio	ausilio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mediatori	mediatore	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
classi	classe	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alunni	alunno	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
classi	classe	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attivazione	attivazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	NOUN	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
linguistico	linguistico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38-bis	38-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorni	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
filiazioni	filiazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
insegnamento	insegnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
universitario	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
filiazioni	filiazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
insegnamento	insegnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
universitario	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
centocinquanta	centocinquanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legale	legale	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
filiazione	filiazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
delegato	delegato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
obbliga	obbligare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	xcomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl
territorialmente	territorialmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obl
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studente	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39	39	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
percorsi	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
percorsi	percorso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurata	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
volte	volgere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promuovendo	promuovere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
universitari	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alta	alto	ADJ	A	amod
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
artistica	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
musicale	musicale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coreutica	coreutico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
orientamenti	orientamento	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
universitari	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stipulando	stipulare	VERB	V	advcl
apposite	apposire	VERB	V	amod
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
formative	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
studentesca	studentesco	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzando	organizzira	VERB	V	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
orientamento	orientamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostentamento	sostentamento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studente	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovabilità	rinnovabilità	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
lo	lo	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
erogazione	erogazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
borse	borsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussidi	sussidio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
premi	premio	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvidenze	provvidenza	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
universitario	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uniformità	uniformità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvidenze	provvidenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	obl
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguiti	conseguire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
insegnamento	insegnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
beneficia	beneficiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
multilaterale	multilaterale	ADJ	A	conj
comprendente	comprendente	ADV	B	advmod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trecentosessanta	trecentosessanto	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
visto	visto	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
studi	studio	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
iniziati	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
integrarli	integrare li	VERB	V_PC	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
connesso	connessoo	ADJ	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
provenga	provenga	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquis	acquis	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Schengen	Schengen	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esibisce	esibire	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
multilaterale	multilaterale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
beneficia	beneficiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
multilaterale	multilaterale	ADJ	A	conj
comprendente	comprendente	ADV	B	advmod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgervi	svolgere vi	VERB	V_PC	acl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trecentosessanta	trecentosessanto	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
correda	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proveniente	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
accademiche	accademico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
complementare	complementare	ADJ	A	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuole	scuola	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specializzazione	specializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
asilo	asilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
sussidiaria	sussidiario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
religiosi	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
20-bis	20-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
22	22	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
42-bis	42-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	NUM	N	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
secondaria	secondario	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diplomi	diploma	NOUN	S	obl
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuole	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuole	scuola	NOUN	S	conj
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
funzionanti	funzionante	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
normative	normativa	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soddisfino	soddisfino	VERB	A	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	appos
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
studente	studente	NOUN	S	appos
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studente	studente	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	NOUN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
multilaterali	multilaterale	NOUN	S	conj
comprendenti	comprendente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
studente	studente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riammesso	riammesso	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
oppone	opporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studente	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-ter	5-ter	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
falsificato	falsificato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatto	contraffare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfaceva	soddisfacere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
soggiorna	soggiornare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-quinquies	5-quinquies	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cure	cura	NOUN	S	obl
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
20-bis	20-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
22	22	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12-quater	12-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
42-bis	42-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	obl
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insieme	insieme	ADP	E	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescindere	prescindere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
godano	godere	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalenti	equivalere	VERB	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusi	concludere	VERB	A	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	conj
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Paesi	Paesi	PROPN	SP	conj
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
beneficiano	beneficiare	VERB	V	ccomp
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
status	status	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiornante	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggiornano	soggiornano	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soggiornano	soggiornare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27-quater	27-quater	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
intrasocietario	intrasocietario	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
27-quinquies	27-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Soggiorno	Soggiorno	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
alunni	alunno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
frequentare	frequentare	VERB	V	xcomp
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
secondaria	secondario	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
percorsi	percorso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
corsi	corso	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
frequentare	frequentare	VERB	V	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
corsi	corso	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	conj
extracurriculari	extracurriculario	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nmod
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	conj
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
Regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
Province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	obj
curriculari	curricularo	ADJ	A	amod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
percorsi	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promossi	promuovere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	conj
scolastiche	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
centri	centro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
pratica	pratica	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinistiche	ordinistico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	ROOT
transnazionali	transnazionale	ADJ	A	amod
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingentamento	contingentamento	NOUN	S	obl
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	conj
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
Regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
Province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
minori	minore	ADJ	S	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
minori	minore	NOUN	S	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
approvati	approvato	VERB	A	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
frequenza	frequenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scuole	scuola	NOUN	S	conj
secondarie	secondario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
statali	statale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
paritarie	paritaria	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	conj
accademiche	accademico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
definiscono	definiscere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alunno	alunno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	obl
curriculari	curricularo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
insegnamento	insegnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzare	ADJ	A	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accogliere	accogliere	VERB	V	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
erogare	erogare	VERB	V	xcomp
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corsi	corso	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fondano	fondare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
formativa	formativo	ADJ	V	amod
inviante	inviante	ADV	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obj
ospitante	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tirocinante	tirocinante	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	obj
educativi	educativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
apprendimento	apprendimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
supervisione	supervisione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	conj
messe	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedenti	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vitto	vitto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
polizza	polizza	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurativa	assicurativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	obl
extracurriculari	extracurriculare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
percorso	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
iniziato	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	xcomp
conoscenze	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pratica	pratica	NOUN	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	obl
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
guida	guida	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	obj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
studente	studente	NOUN	S	appos
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
tirocinante	tirocinante	ADV	B	appos
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
alunno	alunno	VERB	V	conj
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
frequentare	frequentare	VERB	V	xcomp
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	obj
curriculari	curricularo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
extracurriculari	extracurriculare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quella	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
frequentare	frequentare	VERB	V	xcomp
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	obj
curriculari	curricularo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
extracurriculari	extracurriculare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quella	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	conj
educativo	educativo	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-bis.1	39-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Permesso	Permesso	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprenditorialità	imprenditorialità	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
reddituali	reddituale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
munito	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
dottorato	dottorato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
master	master	NOUN	S	conj
universitario	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
laurea	laurea	NOUN	S	conj
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
laurea	laurea	NOUN	S	conj
specialistica	specialistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
diploma	diploma	NOUN	S	conj
accademico	accademico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
diploma	diploma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tecnico	tecnico	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
politica	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
attiva	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
cercare	cercare	VERB	V	acl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avviare	avviare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obj
coerente	coerente	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
percorso	percorso	NOUN	S	obl
formativo	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
completato	completato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	obj
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
reddituali	reddituale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allega	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cop
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuta	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenta	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
falsificata	falsificare	VERB	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatta	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfaceva	soddisfacere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	A	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medici	medico	NOUN	S	nmod
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
medico	medico	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendano	intendare	VERB	V	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
clinica	clinico	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	obl
ospedaliere	ospedaliere	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
ospedaliere	ospedaliere	VERB	V	csubj
universitarie	universitario	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
scientifico	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medici	medico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
IN	IN	PROPN	E	case
MATERIA	MATERIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
SANITARIA	SANITARIA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
NONCHÈ	NONCHÈ	PROPN	SP	nsubj
DI	DI	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ISTRUZIONE	ISTRUZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ALLOGGIO	ALLOGGIO	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
PARTECIPAZIONE	PARTECIPAZIONE	PROPN	SP	appos
ALLA	ALLA	ADP	E_RD	case
VITA	VITA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PUBBLICA	PUBBLICA	PROPN	S	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
INTEGRAZIONE	INTEGRAZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj
SOCIALE	SOCIALE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
IN	IN	ADP	E	case
MATERIA	MATERIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
ALLOGGIO	ALLOGGIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ASSISTENZA	ASSISTENZA	PROPN	SP	conj
SOCIALE	SOCIALE	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40	40	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Centri	Centri	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
predispongono	predispongono	VERB	V	ROOT
centri	centro	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ospitare	ospitare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
ospitanti	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
cittadini	cittadino	ADJ	A	amod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
turismo	turismo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
impossibilitati	impossibilitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	xcomp
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
alloggiative	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	nummod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
LUGLIO	LUGLIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2002	2002	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
riservato	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	PROPN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dimostrino	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
autosufficienti	autosufficiente	ADJ	A	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
ospitati	ospitare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	conj
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ospiti	ospite	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
gestionali	gestionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strutturali	strutturale	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziamenti	finanziamento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alloggiative	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gratuitamente	gratuitamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immediate	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
alloggiative	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
occasioni	occasione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apprendimento	apprendimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
scambi	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
popolazione	popolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sanitaria	sanitaria	NOUN	S	compound
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
impossibilitati	impossibilitare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provvedervi	provvedere vi	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vitto	vitto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vive	vivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alloggi	alloggio	NOUN	S	obl
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
predisposti	predisporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
insediamento	insediamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fondazioni	fondazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
alloggiative	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevalentemente	prevalentemente	ADV	B	advmod
organizzate	organizzare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pensionato	pensionato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aperte	aperto	ADJ	A	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
italiani	italiano	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finalizzate	finalizzare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sistemazione	sistemazione	NOUN	S	obj
alloggiativa	alloggiativo	ADJ	A	amod
dignitosa	dignitoso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
calmierate	calmierato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reperimento	reperimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
biennale	biennale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
alloggi	alloggio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
edilizia	edilizia	NOUN	S	nmod
residenziale	residenziale	ADJ	A	amod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenzie	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
predisposte	predispostere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
locazioni	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
abitative	abitativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	conj
agevolato	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
edilizia	edilizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
casa	casa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
41	41	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggiornanti	soggiornante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	ADJ	S	conj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fruizione	fruizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvidenze	provvidenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incluse	includere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
affetti	affetto	VERB	A	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
morbo	morbo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Hansen	Hansen	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
tubercolosi	tubercolosi	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
sordomuti	sordomuto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
ciechi	cieco	NOUN	S	obl
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
invalidi	invalido	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
indigenti	indigente	VERB	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fruizione	fruizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
diritti	diritto	ADJ	S	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
883/2004	883/2004	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2004	2004	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
costituenti	costituire	VERB	A	acl
diritti	diritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fruizione	fruizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
883/2004	883/2004	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2004	2004	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzare	ADJ	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
IN	IN	PROPN	E	case
MATERIA	MATERIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
SANITARIA	SANITARIA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
NONCHÈ	NONCHÈ	PROPN	SP	nsubj
DI	DI	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ISTRUZIONE	ISTRUZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ALLOGGIO	ALLOGGIO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
PARTECIPAZIONE	PARTECIPAZIONE	PROPN	SP	appos
ALLA	ALLA	ADP	E_RD	case
VITA	VITA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PUBBLICA	PUBBLICA	PROPN	S	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	punct
INTEGRAZIONE	INTEGRAZIONE	PROPN	SP	nsubj
SOCIALE	SOCIALE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
SULL'	SULL'	PROPN	E_RD	flat:name
INTEGRAZIONE	INTEGRAZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
SOCIALE	SOCIALE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
SULLE	SULLE	ADJ	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISCRIMINAZIONI	DISCRIMINAZIONI	NOUN	S	flat:name
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
ISTITUZIONE	ISTITUZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj
DEL	DEL	ADP	SP	case
FONDO	FONDO	PROPN	SP	nmod
PER	PER	PROPN	SP	case
LE	LE	PROPN	RD	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
POLITICHE	POLITICHE	PROPN	SP	nmod
MIGRATORIE	MIGRATORIE	PROPN	SP	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
42	42	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
operanti	operanto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
favoriscono	favorire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
intraprese	intraprendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cultura	cultura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuole	scuola	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
funzionanti	funzionante	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
389	389	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardante	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
crescita	crescita	NOUN	S	conj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
offerte	offrire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazionismo	associazionismo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
reinserimento	reinserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
valorizzazione	valorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espressioni	espressione	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricreative	ricreativa	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
religiose	religioso	ADJ	A	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornanti	soggiornante	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discriminazioni	discriminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
razziali	razziale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
xenofobia	xenofobia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
biblioteche	biblioteca	NOUN	S	nmod
scolastiche	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
universitarie	universitario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
libri	libro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
periodici	periodico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
audiovisivo	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
originale	originale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
iscritte	iscrittere	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mediatori	mediatore	NOUN	S	nmod
interculturali	interculturale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl
etnici	etnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
linguistici	linguistico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
religiosi	religioso	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ispirati	ispirare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
multiculturale	multiculturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comportamenti	comportamento	NOUN	S	nmod
discriminatori	discriminatore	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
xenofobi	xenofobi	NOUN	SP	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
razzisti	razzista	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Dipartimento	dipartimento	ADV	B	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
selezionate	selezionare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
promosse	promuovere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nsubj
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ostacoli	ostacolo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

I1	I1	ADJ	NO	ROOT

Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
volte	volgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrati	immigrato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Consigli	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
problematiche	problematica	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
immigrati	immigrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Consulta	Consulta	NOUN	S	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
immigrati	immigrato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presieduta	presiedutare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consulta	consulta	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamati	chiamare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
significative	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
operanti	operanto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
confederazioni	confederazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	nmod
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministeri	Ministeri	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	conj
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimenti	dipartimente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autonomie	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
due	due	NUM	N	nsubj:pass
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uno	uno	PRON	PI	appos
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Associazione	Associazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ANCI	ANCI	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uno	uno	PRON	PI	appos
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UPI	UPI	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CNEL	CNEL	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	X	ROOT
-	-	X	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
membro	membro	NOUN	S	obl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consulta	consulta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
supplente	supplente	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	nsubj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
istituire	istituire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
analogia	analogia	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
loro	loro	PRON	PE	det:poss
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consulte	consulte	VERB	V	acl
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
extracomunitari	extracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consulta	Consulta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consigli	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consulte	Consulte	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
supplenti	supplente	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
gratuita	gratuito	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risiedano	risiedare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
42-bis	42-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Permesso	Permesso	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1958	1958	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	ccomp
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nsubj
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
43	43	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
razziali	razziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etnici	etnico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
religiosi	religioso	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	obj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
distinzione	distinzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
restrizione	restrizione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
preferenza	preferenza	NOUN	S	conj
basata	basato	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
razza	razza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colore	colore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ascendenza	ascendenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
origine	origine	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
etnica	etnico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
convinzioni	convinzione	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
pratiche	pratica	NOUN	S	conj
religiose	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
distruggere	distruggere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compromettere	compromettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
umani	umano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	conj
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
compie	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
incaricata	incaricato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
esercente	esercente	NOUN	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
compia	compio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ometta	ometta	NOUN	S	conj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardi	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenente	appartenente	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
razza	razza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
religione	religione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etnia	etnia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
discriminino	discriminino	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ingiustamente	ingiustamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
imponga	imponga	VERB	A	conj
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
svantaggiose	svantaggioso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rifiuti	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
offerti	offerti	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenente	appartenente	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
razza	razza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
religione	religione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etnia	etnia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
illegittimamente	illegittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
imponga	imponga	ADJ	A	conj
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
svantaggiose	svantaggioso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rifiuti	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
socio-	socio-o	NOUN	S	conj
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenente	appartenente	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
razza	razza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
religione	religione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etnia	etnia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
impedisca	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
legittimamente	legittimo	ADV	B	advmod
intrapresa	intrapresa	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
soggiornante	soggiornante	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenente	appartenente	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
razza	razza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	conj
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etnia	etnia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
preposti	preposto	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
300	300	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrata	integrare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
l977	L977	PROPN	S	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
903	903	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compiano	compiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
produca	produca	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
pregiudizievole	pregiudizievole	ADJ	A	amod
discriminando	discriminare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
razza	razza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
etnico	etnico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
linguistico	linguistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	obl
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Costituisce	Costituisce	VERB	V	ROOT
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	obj
indiretta	indirettare	VERB	V	acl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
pregiudizievole	pregiudizievole	ADJ	A	amod
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svantaggino	svantaggare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obj
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
razza	razza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
etnico	etnico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
linguistico	linguistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	obl
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riguardino	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
xenofobi	xenofobi	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
razzisti	razzista	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
discriminatori	discriminatore	NOUN	S	conj
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
apolidi	apolido	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	A	flat:name
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44	44	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
privato	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
razziali	razziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etnici	etnico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
linguistici	linguistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
religiosi	religioso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	csubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
domandare	domandare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	nmod
pregiudizievole	pregiudizievole	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
elude	eludere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resi	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ponga	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	conj
discriminatorio	discriminatorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
individuabili	individuabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
lesi	lendere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
discriminazioni	discriminazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentativi	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comportamenti	comportamento	NOUN	S	conj
discriminatori	discriminatore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accordati	accordare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
benefici	beneficio	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	V	acl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	conj
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pretore	pretore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incluse	includere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	obj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
creditizie	creditizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
revocano	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
creditizie	creditizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
immigrati	immigrato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fenomeno	fenomeno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
predispongono	predispongono	VERB	V	ROOT
centri	centro	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
osservazione	osservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vittime	vittima	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discriminazioni	discriminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
razziali	razziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etnici	etnico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
religiosi	religioso	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
45	45	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fondo	fondo	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
politiche	politico	NOUN	S	nmod
migratorie	migratorio	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
politiche	politico	NOUN	S	nmod
migratorie	migratorio	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
38	38	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
40	40	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
42	42	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
46	46	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pluriennali	pluriennale	ADJ	A	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
12.500	12.500	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
58.000	58.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
68.000	68.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lett	lett	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
468	468	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
affluiscono	affluisce	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versati	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
Fondo	Fondo	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Fondo	Fondo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
ripartito	ripartire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplina	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
erogazione	erogazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rendicontazione	rendicontazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obj
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pluriennali	pluriennale	ADJ	A	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettiva	effettiva	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
completa	completo	ADJ	A	conj
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
operativa	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formative	formativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informative	informativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
private	privato	ADJ	A	conj
prioritarie	prioritaria	NOUN	S	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
erogazione	erogazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
95	95	NUM	N	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
943	943	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versate	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnate	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
Fondo	Fondo	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
943	943	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
soppresso	sopprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
predisporre	predisporre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrati	immigrato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
formulare	formulare	VERB	V	conj
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	conj
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	obl
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interculturali	interculturale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
razzismo	razzismo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composta	comporre	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministeri	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanità	sanità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scelto	scegliere	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
professori	professore	NOUN	S	obl
universitari	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
esperti	esperto	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
collocato	collocare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	fixed
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invitati	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sedute	seduta	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Conferenza	Conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	conj
Stato	stato	PROPN	SP	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
città	città	NOUN	S	appos
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomie	autonomia	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
intenda	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stanziamento	stanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
private	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
ricercatori	ricercatore	NOUN	S	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
deliberate	deliberare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stipulate	stipulare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazioni	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
NORME	NORME	PROPN	SP	nmod
FINALI	FINALI	PROPN	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	VA	nsubj
abrogate	abrogare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
16	16	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
297	297	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
390	390	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
soppresse	soppresso	PRON	PD	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	ccomp
trattati	trattato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
multilaterali	multilaterale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogate	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Testo	Testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1941	1941	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
48	48	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obl
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	conj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
42.500	42.500	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
124.000	124.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1999	1999	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quanto	quanto	PRON	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
22.500	22.500	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
104.000	104.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1999	1999	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stanziamento	stanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1999	1999	NUM	N	compound
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitolo	capitolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6856	6856	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
22.500	22.500	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
29.000	29.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1999	1999	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accantonamento	accantonamento	NOUN	S	appos
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

quanto	quanto	ADV	B	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1999	1999	NUM	N	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accantonamento	accantonamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

quanto	quanto	ADV	B	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1999	1999	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accantonamento	accantonamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

quanto	quanto	ADV	B	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1999	1999	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accantonamento	accantonamento	NOUN	S	conj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quanto	quanto	PRON	B	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
1998	1998	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1999	1999	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stanziamento	stanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritto	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1999	1999	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitolo	capitolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9001	9001	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accantonamento	accantonamento	NOUN	S	obj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
apportare	apportare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
transitorie	transitorio	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dotare	dotare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
questure	questura	NOUN	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
fossero	essere	AUX	VA	aux
provviste	provvista	VERB	V	acl:relcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	obl
tecnologiche	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
questure	questura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
criminale	criminale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriormente	anteriormere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
programmatico	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1998	1998	NUM	N	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ingressi	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	advcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesti	richierre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
8.000	8.000	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tetto	tetto	NOUN	S	nmod
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
perfezionamento	perfezionamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
detenute	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internate	internare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
penitenziaria	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	nmod
segnaletici	segnaletice	ADJ	A	amod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
questure	questura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
SCALFARO	SCALFARO	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
PRODI	PRODI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TURCO	TURCO	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	PROPN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
DINI	DINI	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
NAPOLITANO	NAPOLITANO	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
FLICK	FLICK	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CIAMPI	CIAMPI	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
BINDI	BINDI	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanità	sanità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
BERLINGUER	BERLINGUER	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
scientifica	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnologica	tecnologico	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TREU	TREU	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
BASSANINI	BASSANINI	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	conj
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

FLICK	FLICK	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep