Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mondo	mondo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	conj
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
affette	affettere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
minorazioni	minorazione	NOUN	S	obl
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
psichiche	psichico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sensoriali	sensoriale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portatori	portatore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
handicap	handicap	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettivo	intellettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportino	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
45	45	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invalidità	invalidità	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
indicativa	indicativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
percentuali	percentuale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
invalidità	invalidità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
minorazioni	minorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
malattie	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
invalidanti	invalidante	ADJ	A	amod
approvata	approvato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
509	509	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanità	sanità	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
menomazioni	menomazione	NOUN	S	nmod
elaborata	elaborare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanita	sanita	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
invalide	invalido	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
invalidità	invalidità	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
33	33	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Istituto	Istituto	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
infortuni	infortuno	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
malattie	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
INAIL	INAIL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vedenti	vedente	VERB	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sordomute	sordomuta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
382	382	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
invalide	invalido	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invalide	invalido	ADJ	A	amod
civili	civile	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
invalide	invalido	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
minorazioni	minorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ascritte	ascrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	case
ottava	ottavo	ADJ	NO	amod
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabelle	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
annesse	annettere	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pensioni	pensione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
915	915	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vedenti	vedente	NOUN	S	obl
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	xcomp
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
colpiti	colpire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cecità	cecità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
residuo	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
visivo	visivo	ADJ	A	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
entrambi	entrambi	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
occhi	occhio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
sordomuti	sordomuto	NOUN	S	obl
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
colpiti	colpire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sordità	sordità	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
apprendimento	apprendimento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
parlata	parlato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
centralinisti	centralinista	NOUN	S	nmod
telefonici	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vedenti	vedente	ADJ	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
594	594	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1960	1960	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
778	778	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1965	1965	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
231	231	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1971	1971	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
397	397	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
29	29	NUM	N	conj
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1985	1985	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
113	113	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
massaggiatori	massaggiatore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
massofisioterapisti	massofisioterapisto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vedenti	vedente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1961	1961	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
686	686	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
19	19	NUM	N	conj
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1971	1971	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
403	403	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
terapisti	terapiste	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vedenti	vedente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
insegnanti	insegnante	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vedenti	vedente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sordomuti	sordomuto	NOUN	S	nmod
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ferme	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1958	1958	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
308	308	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
danno	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visite	visita	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
invalidante	invalidante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
adottati	adottato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
infortuni	infortuno	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
malattie	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1965	1965	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1124	1124	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
residua	residuo	ADJ	A	nmod
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	compound
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
infortunio	infortunio	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
INAIL	INAIL	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
danno	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
continua	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pensioni	pensione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
915	915	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posto	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quei	quello	DET	DD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	V	cop
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
infortunio	infortunio	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	obl
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
serie	serie	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
permettono	permettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	xcomp
adeguatamente	adeguatamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
inserirle	inserire le	VERB	V_PC	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obl
adatto	adatto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
posti	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
positive	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ambienti	ambiente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
interpersonali	interpersonale	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
quotidiani	quotidiano	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assunzioni	assunzioni	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quote	quote	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	amod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
occupati	occupato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
occupano	occupare	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
occupano	occupare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
occupano	occupare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
partiti	partito	NOUN	S	obl
politici	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
computa	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolgente	svolgente	ADJ	A	conj
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
versano	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
223	223	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1984	1984	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
726	726	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1984	1984	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
863	863	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	A	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
proporzione	proporzione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mobilità	mobilità	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
24	24	NUM	N	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
223	223	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
concluda	concludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
licenziamenti	licenziamente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
permane	permanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Criteri	Criteri	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computati	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
computabili	computabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	ROOT
occupati	occupare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	appos
occupati	occupato	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soci	socio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
occupati	occupato	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
somministrazione	somministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzatore	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
assunti	assumere	VERB	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	appos
impegnati	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
assunti	assumere	VERB	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aderiscono	aderiscire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
emersione	emersione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
383	383	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
esclusioni	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
discipline	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
300	300	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
frazioni	frazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
percentuali	percentuale	ADJ	A	amod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
0,50	0,50	NUM	N	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
unità	unità	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	amod
occupati	occupato	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
telelavoro	telelavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imprenditore	imprenditore	NOUN	S	nsubj
affida	affido	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
predisposizione	predisposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accomodamenti	accomodamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ragionevoli	ragionevole	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	i	ADJ	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Nazioni	nazione	NOUN	S	nmod
Unite	Unite	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Assemblea	Assemblea	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
13	13	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
atta	attare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	advcl
loro	loro	PRON	PE	dep
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
continuativa	continuativo	ADJ	A	amod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
orario	orario	NOUN	S	obl
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
877	877	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
occupa	occupare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
telelavoro	telelavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computati	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	obl
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computati	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
60	60	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minorazioni	minorazione	NOUN	S	conj
ascritte	ascrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	case
sesta	sesto	ADJ	A	amod
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabelle	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
annesse	annettere	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pensioni	pensione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
915	915	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	conj
intellettiva	intellettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
psichica	psichico	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
45	45	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
divengono	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inabili	inabile	ADJ	V_PC	xcomp
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
infortunio	infortunio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computati	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	VERB	VA	advcl
subito	subire	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
60	60	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
divenuti	divenure	VERB	V	conj
inabili	inabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inadempimento	inadempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
igiene	igiene	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infortunio	infortunio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	xcomp
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenziamento	licenziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	amod
equivalenti	equivalente	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	obl
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalenti	equivalento	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	PD	nsubj:pass
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avviati	avviare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
residue	residue	NUM	N	amod
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
renda	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
riqualificazione	riqualificazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
affidarne	affidare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1977	1977	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
616	616	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
emanazione	emanazione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
845	845	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riqualificazione	riqualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mutilati	mutilato	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
invalidi	invalide	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1965	1965	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1124	1124	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detratte	detratre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
incollocabilità	incollocabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
248	248	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addestramento	addestramento	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1949	1949	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
264	264	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	obl
predisposti	predisporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	NOUN	SP	nsubj:pass
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
denominata	denominare	VERB	V	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Conferenza	Conferenza	NOUN	S	xcomp
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esclusioni	Esclusioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esoneri	esonere	NOUN	A	amod
parziali	parziale	ADJ	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
esonerativi	esonerativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
Commissioni	Commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
parlamentari	parlamentare	NOUN	S	amod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esprimono	esprimere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
schema	schema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	obl
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
ridotta	ridotto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
aereo	aereo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
marittimo	marittimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terrestre	terrestre	ADJ	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
viaggiante	viaggiante	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
navigante	navigante	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
edile	edile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cantiere	cantiere	VERB	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
addetti	addetto	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inquadramento	inquadramento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previdenziale	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
personale	personale	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
cantiere	cantiere	VERB	V	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
operante	operante	VERB	B	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
montaggi	montaggio	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impiantistici	impiantistice	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cantiere	cantiere	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
esentati	esentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fune	fune	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
adibito	adibire	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aree	area	NOUN	S	obl
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparto	comparto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autotrasporto	autotrasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evolvere	evolvere	VERB	V	xcomp
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
evolute	evoluto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
competitive	competitivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stradale	stradale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
454	454	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autotrasporto	autotrasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
viaggiante	viaggiante	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
occupare	occupare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
percentuale	percentuale	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
esonerati	esonerare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
versino	versare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	PROPN	S	obl
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	obj
esonerativo	esonerativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
assunta	assunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
25.000	25.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
disabile	disabile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occupato.(11	occupato.(11	ADV	B	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
occupano	occupare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
addetti	addetto	NOUN	S	obj
impegnati	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lavorazioni	lavorazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
premio	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
INAIL	INAIL	PROPN	SP	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
60	60	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autocertificare	autocertificare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esonero	esonero	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
addetti	addetto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
versare	versare	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	obj
esonerativo	esonerativo	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
30,64	30,64	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occupato	occupare	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
parlamentari	parlamentare	NOUN	S	amod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esprimono	esprimere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esoneri	esonere	NOUN	S	obl
parziali	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
occupazionali	occupazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nmod
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
maggiorata	maggiorare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
24	24	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiorazione	maggiorazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adeguati	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
18	18	NUM	N	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettati	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
occupano	occupare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
diverse	diverso	DET	DI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
10	10	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
produttiva	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	ferma	VERB	V	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	obl
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	DET	DD	det
prescritto	prescritto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
portando	portare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
automatica	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minor	minore	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
assunti	assumere	VERB	A	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
insistono	insistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obj
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sedi	sede	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diverse	diverso	DET	DI	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
riferiti	riferire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
produttiva	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8-ter	8-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
produttiva	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	obl
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	DET	DD	det
prescritto	prescritto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
portando	portare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minor	minore	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8-quater	8-quater	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
restano	restare	VERB	V	conj
abrogate	abrogare	VERB	V	xcomp
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8-ter	8-ter	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8-quinquies	8-quinquies	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	acl
abusi	abuso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esonero	esonero	NOUN	S	nmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	NOUN	SP	nsubj:pass
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ridefiniti	ridefinire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esoneri	esonero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
volte	volgere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
potenziamento	potenziamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

----------------	----------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
469	469	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	nsubj
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
469	469	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominati	denominare	VERB	V	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	xcomp
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
raccordo	raccordo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sanitari	sanitario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
educativi	educativo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formativi	formativo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
loro	loro	PRON	PE	iobj
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
volti	volgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	S	conj
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esoneri	esonero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compensazioni	compensazione	NOUN	S	conj
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esoneri	esonero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivazione	attivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituite	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
comparativamente	comparativamente	ADJ	A	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
aggiunti	aggiunto	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
medico	medico	NOUN	A	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inabilità	inabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
residue	residue	NUM	N	amod
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predisposizione	predisposizione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
periodici	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inabilità	inabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
nominativa	nominativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nominativa	nominativo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preceduta	precedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl:agent
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
preselezione	preselezione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aderiscono	aderiscire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
concordate	concordare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
avviano	avviare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	S	conj
concordata	concordare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
chiamata	chiamare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	conj
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aderiscono	aderire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
miglioramento	miglioramento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incontro	incontro	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
offerta	offrire	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1993	1993	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posti	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
complessiva	complessivo	NOUN	A	amod
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posti	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cambi	cambio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
creditizio	creditizio	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	conj
valutaria	valutario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procedono	procede	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
37	37	NUM	N	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Elenchi	Elenchi	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
graduatorie	graduatoria	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
disoccupate	disoccupato	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aspirano	aspirare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	obl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obl
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
iscrivono	iscrive	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
elenco	elenco	ADJ	A	amod
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	obl
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscriversi	iscrivere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
era	essere	AUX	VA	cop
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
iscritto	iscritto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	A	amod
annota	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	obl
scheda	schedere	VERB	V	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
abilità	abilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
inclinazioni	inclinazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
analizza	analizzare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posti	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assegnare	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
favorendo	favorire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incontro	incontro	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
offerta	offrire	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
opera	opera	NOUN	S	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
medico	medico	NOUN	S	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
predisposizione	predisposizione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
periodici	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
umane	umano	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gettone	gettone	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
emolumento	emolumento	NOUN	S	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
denominato	denominato	ADJ	A	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
graduatoria	graduatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
disoccupati	disoccupato	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formati	formare	VERB	V	conj
applicando	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dagli	Da il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
risarcitorio	risarcitorio	ADJ	A	amod
percepite	percepito	VERB	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
definiscono	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
licenziati	licenziare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
oggettivo	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mantengono	mantengere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Richieste	richieste	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invio	invio	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prospetti	prospetto	NOUN	S	nmod
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
psichici	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avviati	avviare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
nominativa	nominativo	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
inviare	inviare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	obj
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
nominativi	nominativo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
computabili	computabile	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
posti	posto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	conj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	obl
inviato	inviato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avvengono	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
cambiamenti	cambiamento	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
occupazionale	occupazionale	ADJ	A	amod
tali	tale	PRON	PD	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	mark
incidere	incidere	VERB	V	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
inviare	inviare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unitarietà	unitarietà	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omogeneità	omogeneità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
modulo	modulo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	nmod
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
periodicità	periodicità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
innovazione	innovazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prospetti	prospetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	acl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sedi	sede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
spazi	spazio	NOUN	S	obl
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
aperti	aperto	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definito	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	xcomp
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
razionalizzare	razionalizzare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obj
sistematica	sistematico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	obl
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
semplificare	semplificare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rafforzare	rafforzare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
migliorare	migliorare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
politiche	politico	ADJ	A	amod
attive	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
passive	passivo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
28	28	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	parataxis
denominata	denominare	VERB	V	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
raccoglie	raccogliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prospetti	prospetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
circa	circa	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accomodamenti	accomodamento	NOUN	S	obj
ragionevoli	ragionevole	ADJ	A	amod
adottati	adottato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alimentazione	alimentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	Legge	NOUN	S	nmod
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	nmod
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
510	510	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
608	608	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
integrate	integrare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
disabile	disabile	ADJ	A	amod
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensioni	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esoneri	esonero	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12	12	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	ADJ	A	amod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
schede	scheda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avviamenti	avviamente	NOUN	S	conj
effettuati	effettuato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	nsubj
alimenta	alimentare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	Banca	NOUN	S	obj
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivi	incentivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
beneficia	beneficiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
INAIL	INAIL	PROPN	SP	nsubj
alimenta	alimentare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	Banca	NOUN	S	obj
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reinserimento	reinserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
alimentano	alimentare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	Banca	NOUN	S	obj
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivi	incentivo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
erogate	erogare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rese	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirare	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
INAIL	INAIL	PROPN	SP	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
personalizzati	personalizzare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reinserimento	reinserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scambiate	scambiare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
196	196	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
elaborazioni	elaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
statistici	statistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
integrate	integrare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Casellario	casellario	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquisite	acquisito	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rese	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
anonime	anonimo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
richieda	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirare	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
17	17	NUM	N	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1987	1987	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulata	stipulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nsubj
rifiuti	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
invalido	invalido	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
redige	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rapporto	Rapporto	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoriamente	obbligatoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
assunti	assumere	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
normativo	normativo	ADJ	A	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compatibile	compatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
minorazioni	minorazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggravamento	aggravamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
significative	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
compatibilità	compatibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
affidate	affidare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
minorazioni	minorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
continuare	continuare	VERB	V	ccomp
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
riscontri	riscontrare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggravamento	aggravamento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
incompatibile	incompatibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
retribuita	retribuire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	obl
persista	persisto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	obl
formativo	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
integrata	integrare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
valuta	valutare	AUX	VA	aux
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
469	469	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
risolto	risolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attuando	attuare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
possibili	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
adattamenti	adattamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetto	NOUN	S	amod
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
reinserire	reinserire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
recesso	recesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
223	223	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
licenziamento	licenziamento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
oggettivo	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
occupato	occupare	VERB	V	acl
obbligatoriamente	obbligatoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
annullabili	annullabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimanenti	rimanento	ADJ	A	amod
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
occupati	occupato	VERB	A	acl
obbligatoriamente	obbligatoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
darne	dare ne	VERB	DI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	dep
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disoccupazione	disoccupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	obl
consecutive	consecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risponda	rispondare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
offerto	offrire	VERB	V	acl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reiscrizione	reiscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
liste	lista	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Convenzioni	Convenzioni	PROPN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
469	469	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzioni	convenzione	ADJ	S	compound
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
mirante	mirare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
occupazionali	occupazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convenute	convenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
nominativa	nominativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tirocini	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
formative	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
orientamento	orientamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
ampi	ampio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nsubj
negativo	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
riferibile	riferibile	ADJ	A	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
menomazione	menomazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
affetto	affetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulata	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presentino	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuano	attuare	VERB	V	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obl
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
266	266	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
18	18	NUM	N	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
contribuire	contribuire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
469	469	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deroghe	deroga	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
apprendistato	apprendistato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
451	451	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
deroghe	deroga	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
giustificate	giustificare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
mirato	mirato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dettagliatamente	dettagliatamente	VERB	S	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	obj
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
disabile	disabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutoraggio	tutoraggio	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
orientamento	orientamento	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adattamento	adattamento	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	advmod
periodiche	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
percorso	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
formativo	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
inerente	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incaricati	incaricato	VERB	V	acl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Convenzioni	Convenzioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
formative	formative	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
11	11	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	obj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
liberi	libero	ADJ	A	amod
professionisti	professionista	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
operanti	operantare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	obl
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominati	denominare	VERB	V	acl
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ospitanti	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apposite	apposire	ADJ	V	amod
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
finalizzate	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
ospitanti	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
impegnano	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	xcomp
commesse	commessa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ripetibili	ripetibile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
469	469	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riguardare	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
disabile	disabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
occupa	occupare	VERB	V	advcl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
occupa	occupare	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contestuale	contestuale	ADJ	A	amod
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
computabilità	computabilità	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitanti	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
retributivi	retributivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimi	ultimo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
eccedere	eccedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prorogabili	prorogabile	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	parataxis
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commesse	commessa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
ospitanti	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
ospitanti	ospitante	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
normativa	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
retributiva	retributivo	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
finalizzate	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
nominativi	nominativo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
inserire	inserire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
personalizzato	personalizzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apposite	apposito	ADJ	V	amod
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
finalizzate	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Convenzioni	Convenzioni	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
11	11	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12	12	NUM	N	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominati	denominare	VERB	V	advcl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
conferenti	conferento	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominati	denominare	VERB	V	acl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apposite	apposito	ADJ	V	conj
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
finalizzate	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	compound
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presentino	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
conferenti	conferento	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
impegnano	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	xcomp
commesse	commessa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	VERB	V	cop
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
10	10	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
arrotondamento	arrotondamento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicina	vicino	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct
Requisiti	Requisiti	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	punct
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
inserire	inserire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
469	469	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
personalizzato	personalizzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
durata	durare	NOUN	S	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commessa	commessa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
assunta	assunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
normativa	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
retributiva	retributivo	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	obl
personalizzato	personalizzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
commesse	commessa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commessa	commessa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contestuale	contestuale	ADJ	A	amod
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
le	il	DET	RD	det
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	ROOT
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avere	avere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	A	obl
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
concorsuali	concorsuale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dotati	dotare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	obl
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proceduto	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabile	disabile	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
risoluzioni	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	advmod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
giusta	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustificato	giustificato	VERB	V	conj
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
soggettivo	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
organico	organico	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obj
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutor	tutor	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
committente	committente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rinnovare	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obj
disabile	disabile	ADJ	A	amod
dedotto	dedotto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
indeterminato	indeterminare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
chiamata	chiamata	NOUN	S	obl
nominativa	nominativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
potrà	potere	AUX	VM	aux
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
incaricati	incaricato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
irrogazione	irrogazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inadempimento	inadempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanarsi	emanare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Incentivi	Incentivi	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
70	70	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
lorda	lordo	ADJ	V	amod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
disabile	disabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
79	79	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minorazioni	minorazione	NOUN	S	conj
ascritte	ascrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	case
terza	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabelle	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
annesse	annettere	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pensioni	pensione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
915	915	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
35	35	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
lorda	lordo	ADJ	V	amod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
disabile	disabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
79	79	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minorazioni	minorazione	NOUN	S	conj
ascritte	ascrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarta	quarto	ADJ	NO	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sesta	sesto	ADJ	A	amod
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabelle	tabello	ADJ	A	amod
citate	citata	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
70	70	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
lorda	lordo	ADJ	V	amod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettiva	intellettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
psichica	psichico	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
45	45	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
corrisposto	corrisposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
conguaglio	conguaglio	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denunce	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
contributive	contributivo	ADJ	A	amod
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fruizione	fruizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	amod
spettante	spettante	VERB	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	compound
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
perentori	perentore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	conj
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
operata	operare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguentemente	conseguentemente	ADJ	B	advmod
rimesse	rimettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
potenziali	potenziale	ADJ	A	amod
beneficiari	beneficiario	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
cronologico	cronologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
seguito	seguire	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
insufficienza	insufficienza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl:agent
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prende	prendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
fornendo	fornire	VERB	V	acl
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
entrate	entrato	ADJ	A	amod
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inviando	inviare	VERB	V	advcl
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
trimestrali	trimestrale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
umane	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziarie	finanziaria	NOUN	S	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
incentivi	incentivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estesi	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procedono	procede	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
disabili	disabili	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	conj
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
miliardi	miliardo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2008	2008	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
valere	valere	VERB	V	advcl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
complessive	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
finanziate	finanziare	VERB	V	ROOT
sperimentazioni	sperimentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
inclusione	inclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
guida	guida	NOUN	S	compound
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
26)(28	26)(28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
alimentato	alimentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
spontaneo	spontaneo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
solidale	solidale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versate	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivo	ADV	B	advmod
riassegnate	riassegnare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Fondo	Fondo	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
definito	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	xcomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferite	trasferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
INPS	INPS	PROPN	SP	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
2016	2016	NUM	N	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rese	rendere	VERB	V	conj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiornato	aggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attribuire	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
affluiscono	affluiscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29-quater	29-quater	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
669	669	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impegnate	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esserlo	essere lo	PRON	V_PC	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
apportare	apportare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adeguatezza	adeguatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fondo	fondo	PROPN	SP	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
istituiscono	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obj
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominato	denominare	VERB	V	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fondo	Fondo	PROPN	SP	xcomp
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
destinare	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	DET	DD	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurata	assicurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
paritetica	paritetico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	PROPN	SP	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
irrogazione	irrogazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
versati	versare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versati	versare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fondazioni	fondazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nsubj
eroga	erogare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgano	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
rivolta	rivolgere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabilo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
forfetario	forfetario	ADJ	A	amod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accomodamenti	accomodamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ragionevoli	ragionevole	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incluso	includere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apprestamento	apprestamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
telelavoro	telelavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
barriere	barriera	NOUN	S	nmod
architettoniche	architettonico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
limitano	limitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
istituire	istituire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
provvidenza	provvidenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
SANZIONI	SANZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	conj
FINALI	FINALI	PROPN	SP	amod
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
TRANSITORIE	TRANSITORIE	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sanzioni	Sanzioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adempiano	adempiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000.000	1.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ritardato	ritardato	NOUN	S	amod
invio	invio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
maggiorata	maggiorato	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direzioni	direzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
provinciali	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
introiti	introito	NOUN	A	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
inadempienze	inadempienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disciplinari	disciplinare	ADJ	A	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trascorsi	Trascorsi	VERB	V	advcl
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
insorge	insorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	obj
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
coperta	coperto	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
imputabili	imputabili	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
esonerativo	esonerativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
disabile	disabile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occupato	occupare	VERB	V	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giornata	giornata	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trova	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diffida	diffida	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2004	2004	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
diffida	diffido	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevede	prevede	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
coperta	coperto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
avviata	avviare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adeguati	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorsi	Concorsi	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
banditi	bandito	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
bandi	bando	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
concorrere	concorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
effettive	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posti	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
riservati	riservare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogate	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sana	sana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
robusta	robusto	ADJ	A	amod
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bandi	bando	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Obbligo	obbligo	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	ROOT
sia	essere	AUX	CC	cc
private	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
partecipino	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
bandi	bandio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
intrattengano	intrattengare	VERB	V	conj
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legale	legale	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
attesti	attestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabilo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pena	penare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
transitorie	transitorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finali	finale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuti	mantenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
superano	superare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
occupare	occupare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computati	computare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
organica	organico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
orfani	orfano	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
superstiti	superstire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deceduti	decedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggravarsi	aggravare si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invalidità	invalidità	NOUN	S	nmod
riportata	riportare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuti	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
grandi	grande	ADJ	A	amod
invalidi	invalide	NOUN	S	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profughi	profugo	NOUN	S	conj
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
rimpatriati	rimpatriato	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
status	status	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
763	763	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
occupano	occupare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	nummod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl
percentuale	percentuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	amod
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
occupano	occupare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinquantuno	cinquantuno	PROPN	PI	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
centocinquanta	centocinquanta	NUM	N	amod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione.(29	attuazione.(29	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
invalidi	invalidi	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
risultino	risultare	VERB	SP	acl:relcl
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	A	xcomp
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1968	1968	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
482	482	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avviati	avviare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
emanate	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
norme	norma	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
conformano	conformare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------------	-----------------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Relazione	Relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	PROPN	SP	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
inviare	inviare	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Abrogazioni	Abrogazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Entrata	Entrata	PROPN	SP	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
18	18	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20	20	NUM	N	conj
entrano	entrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
restanti	restare	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
entrano	entrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
trecento	trecento	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munita	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarla	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farla	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
SCALFARO	SCALFARO	PROPN	SP	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
D'	D'	PROPN	SP	nmod
Alema	Alema	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

Diliberto	Diliberto	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep