Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Definizioni	definizioni	PROPN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	obj
probatorio	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
analogo	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
realmente	realmente	ADV	B	advmod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
corrispettivi	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiungere	VERB	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espresse	espresse	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cifra	cifra	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negativo	negativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
basi	base	NOUN	S	conj
imponibili	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
incidono	incidono	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministratore	amministratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidatore	liquidatore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituto	sostituto	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
comprensivi	comprensivo	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indebito	indebito	ADJ	A	amod
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
inesistente	inesistente	NOUN	S	amod
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentirli	consentire li	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl:agent
agisce	agire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministratore	amministratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidatore	liquidatore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
riferiti	riferire	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
agisce	agire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
imposta	imposta	ADJ	A	amod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
omessa	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
versate	versare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritenuta	ritenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
detta	detta	NOUN	S	nmod
imposta	impostare	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
imposta	imporre	VERB	V	xcomp
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	xcomp
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
teorica	teorico	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	conj
collegata	collegare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	conj
pregresse	pregre	VERB	E_RD	case
spettanti	spettante	NOUN	A	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
riferite	riferire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	amod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	conj
estese	estese	NOUN	S	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indebito	indebito	NOUN	S	nmod
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesto	richiedere	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inesistente	inesistente	NOUN	S	amod
credito	credito	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
esposto	esporre	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	X	ROOT
-	-	X	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
simulate	simulare	VERB	V	acl
oggettivamente	oggettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggettivamente	soggettivamente	ADV	B	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
apparenti	apparente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
212	212	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
poste	porre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
realizzarle	realizzare le	VERB	V_PC	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
riferite	riferire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl
fittiziamente	fittiziamente	ADV	B	advmod
interposti	interposto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	conj
condotte	condotto	ADJ	B	advmod
artificiose	artificioso	ADJ	A	amod
attive	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	det
omissive	omissivo	ADJ	A	conj
realizzate	realizzare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentazione	rappresentazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
realtà	realtà	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
quater	quater	PROPN	SP	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
mancano	mancare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
oggettivi	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	conj
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
normativa	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
oggettivi	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentazioni	rappresentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fraudolente	fraudolente	ADV	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attuate	attuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
materialmente	materialmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ideologicamente	ideologicamente	ADV	B	conj
falsi	falso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
simulazioni	simulazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
artifici	artifico	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
quinquies	quinquies	X	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
spettanti	spettantare	VERB	V	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fruiti	fruire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
eccedenza	eccedenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
fruiti	fruire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggettivi	oggettivo	ADJ	A	conj
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
normativa	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondati	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rientranti	rientrare	VERB	V	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
attributiva	attributivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescritti	prescritto	NOUN	S	nmod
adempimenti	adempimente	ADJ	A	amod
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delitti	delitti	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fraudolenta	fraudolengere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indica	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	compound
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
fittizi	fittizio	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
avvalendosi	avvalendoso	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
detenuti	detenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
fittizi	fittizio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomilo	ADJ	A	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fraudolenta	fraudolengere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
artifici	artifico	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compiendo	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
simulate	simulare	VERB	V	acl
oggettivamente	oggettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggettivamente	soggettivamente	ADV	B	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
falsi	falso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
fraudolenti	fraudolento	NOUN	S	amod
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
indurre	indurre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indica	indicare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	compound
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
fittizi	fittizio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
fittizi	fittizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
congiuntamente	congiuntamente	ADV	B	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	ADJ	A	amod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
trentamila	trentamila	VERB	N	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
sottratti	sottratto	VERB	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
fittizi	fittizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obl
cinquecentomila	cinquecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritenute	ritenuta	NOUN	S	conj
fittizie	fittizia	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
trentamila	trentamila	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
avvalendosi	avvalendoso	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
falsi	falso	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
detenuti	detenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
mezzi	mezzo	ADJ	S	obj
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
mera	mero	ADJ	A	amod
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatturazione	fatturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
annotazioni	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
infedele	infedele	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indica	indicare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	compound
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
congiuntamente	congiuntamente	ADV	B	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	ADJ	A	amod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomilo	NUM	A	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
sottratti	sottratto	VERB	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	ADP	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
passivi	passivare	NOUN	S	conj
oggettivamente	oggettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
esistenti	esistente	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
applicati	applicato	VERB	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
rilevante	rilevante	ADV	B	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inerenza	inerenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deducibilità	deducibilità	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
danno	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
considerate	considerare	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
differiscono	differire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
corrette	corretto	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Degli	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
percentuale	percentuale	NOUN	S	obl

non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Omessa	Omessa	PROPN	SP	nmod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	compound


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendovi	essere vi	VERB	V_B	advcl
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	PRON	PI	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposto	ADJ	A	amod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquantamila	cinquantamila	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendovi	essere vi	VERB	V_B	advcl
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituto	sostituto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritenute	ritenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versate	versato	ADJ	V	advcl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
cinquantamila	cinquantamila	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
omessa	omessare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sottoscritta	sottoscritta	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
redatta	redattare	VERB	V	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stampato	stampato	NOUN	S	obl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obl
prescritto	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
T	T	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
n	n	X	X	conj
t	t	CCONJ	CC	dep
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
t	t	CCONJ	CC	fixed
i	il	DET	RD	det
v	v	ADJ	NO	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posta	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiungere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
transfrontalieri	transfrontaliero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
connessi	connesso	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
consegua	consegua	NOUN	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
10.000.000	10.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delitti	delitti	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Emissione	Emissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emette	emettere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	DI	advmod
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondente	rispondere	VERB	B	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vero	vero	ADJ	A	amod
indicato	indicare	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomilo	ADJ	A	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emittente	emittente	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorre	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorre	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	parataxis
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Occultamento	Occultamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
occulta	occultare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	Art.	NOUN	S	conj
10-bis	10-bis	NOUN	S	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omesso	Omesso	PROPN	SP	appos
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritenute	ritenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
certificate	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versa	versare	ADJ	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituto	sostituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	parataxis
risultanti	risultante	NOUN	S	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituiti	sostituito	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
centocinquantamila	centocinquantamila	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
rateazione	rateazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
462	462	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rateazione	rateazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15-ter	15-ter	NUM	N	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
602	602	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
residuo	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquantamila	cinquantamila	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10-ter	10-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omesso	Omesso	PROPN	SP	nmod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10-quater	10-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Indebita	Indebita	NOUN	V	nmod
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versa	versare	VERB	V	csubj
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
dovute	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquantamila	cinquantamila	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versa	versare	VERB	V	csubj
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
dovute	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinquantamila	cinquantamila	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
obiettiva	obiettivo	ADJ	A	amod
incertezza	incertezza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fondano	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
fraudolenta	fraudolentare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
cinquantamila	cinquantamila	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aliena	alieno	VERB	V	advcl
simulatamente	simulatamente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
compie	compiere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	PP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
inefficace	inefficace	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	flat
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indica	indicare	VERB	V	parataxis
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
transazione	transazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
fittizi	fittizio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
cinquantamila	cinquantamila	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	flat
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
COMUNI	COMUNI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
importa	importare	VERB	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttivi	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
perpetua	perpetuare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
componente	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
trova	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sequestro	Sequestro	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	PRON	PR	fixed
sussista	sussistare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dispersione	dispersione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
desumibile	desumibile	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
reddituali	reddituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziarie	finanziaria	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
finalizzato	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
conciliative	conciliativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
adesione	adesione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
pagamenti	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12-ter	12-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
240-bis	240-bis	NUM	N	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
fittizi	fittizio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	ADJ	A	amod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomilo	PRON	A	csubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondente	rispondere	VERB	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vero	vero	ADJ	A	amod
indicato	indicare	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomilo	PRON	A	csubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
fittizi	fittizio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
13	13	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	Cause	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
10-ter	10-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10-quater	10-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	compound
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estinti	estire	VERB	V	advcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
conciliative	conciliativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
adesione	adesione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ravvedimento	ravvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
operoso	operoso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprese	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estinti	estire	VERB	V	advcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ravvedimento	ravvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
operoso	operoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
omessa	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
semprechè	sempreché	AUX	T	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ravvedimento	ravvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
intervenuti	intervenire	VERB	V	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accessi	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
residuo	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Giudice	Giudice	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prorogare	prorogare	VERB	V	acl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10-ter	10-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabili	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
sopravvenute	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritenute	ritenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incasso	incasso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crisi	crisi	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
transitoria	transitorio	ADJ	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidità	liquidità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inesigibilità	inesigibilità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
accertata	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
insolvenza	insolvenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sovraindebitamento	sovraindebitamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
certi	certo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esigibili	esigibile	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esperibilità	esperibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crisi	crisi	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
131-bis	131-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
valuta	valuta	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
prevalente	prevalente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
indici	indice	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	ROOT
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scostamento	scostamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
concordato	concordato	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
residuo	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	sia	CCONJ	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
crisi	crisi	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crisi	crisi	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insolvenza	insolvenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13-bis	13-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
estinto	estinto	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
conciliative	conciliativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
adesione	adesione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allegando	allegare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informa	informare	VERB	V	conj
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rate	rata	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prorogare	prorogare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrale	integrale	ADJ	S	amod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
estinto	estinto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
ravvedimento	ravvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
operoso	operoso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
ipotesi	ipotese	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrente	concorrente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
professionista	professionista	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
intermediario	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
bancario	bancario	ADJ	A	conj
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elaborazione	elaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
estinti	estinte	ADJ	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
anmesso	anmimere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
equa	equo	ADJ	A	amod
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nmod
recata	recare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
tutelato	tutelare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
violata	violato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commisurata	commisurare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
risultante	risultare	VERB	A	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragguaglio	ragguaglio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
contestato	contestato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
congrua	congruo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluzione	assoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituita	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Violazioni	Violazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
interpretazione	interpretazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
danno	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
obiettive	obiettivo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
incertezza	incertezza	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
portata	portata	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotto	interrotre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
elevati	elevare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competenza	Competenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
consumato	consumare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nsubj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
rientranti	rientrante	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
circondari	circondari	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
iscrivere	iscrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Custodia	Custodia	NOUN	S	appos
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrati	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrati	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	PRON	V_PC	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	S	ROOT
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
143	143	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
RAPPORTI	RAPPORTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	ADP	E	case
IL	iL	DET	RD	amod
SISTEMA	sISTEMA	PROPN	S	nmod
SANZIONATORIO	SANZIONATORIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
AMMINISTRATIVO	AMMINISTRATIVO	PROPN	SP	flat:name

E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
FRA	FRA	PROPN	SP	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PROCEDIMENTI	PROCEDIMENTI	PROPN	SP	obj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
specialità	specialità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Permane	Permane	PROPN	SP	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
472	472	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
persone	persona	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
resta	restare	VERB	V	advcl
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatti	fare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
divenute	divenute	VERB	V	acl
irrevocabili	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adesione	adesione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
penalmente	penalmente	ADV	B	advmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	xcomp


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
irroga	irrogo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
eseguibili	eseguibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicali	indicale	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluzione	assoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
formula	formula	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Resta	restare	PROPN	SP	ROOT
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
21-bis	21-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
21-ter	21-ter	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irrogazione	irrogazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
pecuniaria	pecuniaria	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
472	472	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
penalmente	penalmente	ADV	B	case
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sarebbe	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
penalmente	penalmente	ADV	B	advmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21-bis	21-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Efficacia	Efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cassazione	Cassazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluzione	assoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cassazione	Cassazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluzione	assoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negoziale	negoziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obl
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministratore	amministratore	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
soci	socio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associati	associato	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21-ter	21-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Applicazione	Applicazione	PROPN	SP	appos
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
dipendente	dipendere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ridurne	ridure ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
irrogate	irrogare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
COORDINAMENTO	COORDINAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
FINALI	FINALI	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modifiche	Modifiche	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tema	tema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1972	1972	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
633	633	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituite	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
329	329	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ottavo	ottavo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1983	1983	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
manomette	manometto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	obj
misuratori	misuratore	NOUN	S	compound
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
manomessi	manomesso	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eludere	eludere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forma	formare	VERB	V	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
stampati	stampato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
registri	registro	NOUN	S	conj
prescritti	prescritre	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	NOUN	S	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsificazione	falsificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
stampati	stampato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
registri	registro	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Abrogazioni	Abrogazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
abrogata	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
incompatibile	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	appos
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CIAMPI	CIAMPI	PROPN	SP	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
D'	D'	PROPN	SP	nmod
Alema	Alema	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visco	Visco	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diliberto	Diliberto	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

Diliberto	Diliberto	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep