Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espressione	espressione	NOUN	S	nsubj
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	compound
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	conj
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
acquistano	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
danno	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	conj
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
topografie	topografia	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
protetti	proteggere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorrendone	ricorrendone	NOUN	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nsubj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	VA	ROOT
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	SP	nmod
facente	facente	VERB	V	ROOT
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stoccolma	Stoccolma	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
facenti	facere	VERB	V	acl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
Convenzioni	Convenzioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
domiciliati	domiciliare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	conj
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
facente	facente	VERB	V	acl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accordato	accordare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
accordato	accordare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
accordato	accordare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accordato	accordare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
facente	facente	VERB	V	acl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
UPOV	UPOV	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
accordato	accordare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accordato	accordare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
accordata	accordare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	DET	DD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
analoga	analogo	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
facenti	facere	VERB	V	ROOT
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	conj
attiene	attenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accordato	accordare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
accordato	accordare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accorda	accorda	VERB	SP	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscritte	sottoscritto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ratificate	ratificare	VERB	V	conj
dall	dall	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
riconoscono	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
automaticamente	automaticamente	ADV	B	advmod
estese	estese	ADJ	S	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparate	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Priorità	Priorità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
facente	facente	VERB	V	acl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fruisce	fruire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	conj
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	advcl
nascere	nascere	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	A	amod
deposito	deposire	VERB	S	acl
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cioè	cioè	ADV	B	cc
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
plurilaterali	plurilaterale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualunque	qualunque	DET	PI	dep
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
sorte	sorte	NOUN	S	nsubj
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esaurimento	esaurimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esclusive	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
esauriscono	esauriscere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
protetti	proteggere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Spazio	Spazio	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
legittimi	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
opponga	opporre	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterato	alterare	VERB	V	conj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusive	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
derivate	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
protetta	proteggere	VERB	V	acl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
volta	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	advcl
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
derivata	derivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
distinguono	distinguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nettamente	nettamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
necessita	necessitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripetuto	ripetuto	NOUN	S	obl
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estendono	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
riguardanti	riguardante	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
vegetativa	vegetativo	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	PRON	PR	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	ADJ	A	advmod
piante	pianta	NOUN	S	appos
intere	intere	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prodotto	prodotto	VERB	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ceduto	cedere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercializzato	commercializzare	VERB	V	conj
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Spazio	Spazio	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
implicano	implicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riprodurla	riprodure lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
protegge	proteggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esportato	esportato	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Comunione	comunione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolate	regolare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	ROOT
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
contrario	contrario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunione	comunione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	nmod
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
prevista	previsto	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
concesso	concesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
modificata	modificato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

NORME	NORME	PROPN	SP	nmod
RELATIVE	RELATIVE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ALL'	ALL'	DET	E_RD	case
ESISTENZA	ESISTENZA	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ALL'	ALL'	NOUN	S	case
AMBITO	AMBITO	PROPN	SP	conj
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ALL'	ALL'	ADP	E_RD	case
ESERCIZIO	ESERCIZIO	PROPN	SP	conj
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	dep
DIRITTI	DIRITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
PROPRIETÀ	PROPRIETÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
INDUSTRIALE	INDUSTRIALE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Marchi	Marchi	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cifre	cifra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoni	suono	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confezione	confezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
combinazioni	combinazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
tonalità	tonalità	NOUN	S	conj
cromatiche	cromatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
atti	atto	ADJ	A	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
distinguere	distinguere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentati	rappresentare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	DET	DD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
chiarezza	chiarezza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
precisione	precisione	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ritratti	Ritratti	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
notori	notore	NOUN	S	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
ritratti	ritratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	NOUN	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
morte	morte	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimi	ultimo	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
incluso	incluso	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ledere	ledere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fama	fama	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decoro	decoro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
portare	portare	VERB	V	acl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
subordinare	subordinare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedirà	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
prescelta	prescelto	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistendo	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
notori	notore	VERB	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
usati	usare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avente	avente	VERB	V	obl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
letterario	letterario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scientifico	scientifico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
politico	politico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sportivo	sportivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
immagini	immagine	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riproducono	riprodurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
trofei	trofeo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sigle	sigle	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obj
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
emblemi	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
caratteristici	caratteristici	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Marchi	Marchi	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
registrabili	registrabile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obj
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
:))	:))	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
caratteristica	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imposta	imporre	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
caratteristica	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	PUNCT	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
caratteristica	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
sostanziale	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Stemmi	Stemmi	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stemmi	stemma	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
vigenti	vigere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
menzionati	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
simboli	simbolo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emblemi	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stemmi	stemma	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivestano	rivestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
inclusi	includere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
riconducibili	riconducibile	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	conj
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	S	amod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
formare	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
parole	parola	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
figure	figura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
lesivi	lesivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immagine	immagine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reputazione	reputazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Trattandosi	Trattandosi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	A	acl
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
figure	figura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
significazione	significazione	NOUN	S	nmod
politica	politico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alto	alto	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
simbolico	simbolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	conj
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
araldici	araldico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invia	inviare	VERB	V	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esemplare	esemplare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quantaltro	quantaltro	PRON	PD	conj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
occorrere	occorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
sentirne	sentire ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sussista	sussista	NOUN	S	nsubj
dubbio	dubbio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
competente	competente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	advcl
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricanti	fabbricante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prestatori	prestatore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercianti	commerciante	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	appos
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
settimo	settimo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
concedere	concedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercianti	commerciante	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegati	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incluse	incluso	VERB	V	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
servire	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
designare	designare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
soggetto	soggetto	VERB	V	dep
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
provengano	provengere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
zona	zona	NOUN	S	obl
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
diventare	diventare	VERB	V	advcl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	cop
soddisfatti	soddisfare	VERB	V	advcl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
peraltro	peraltro	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rifiutare	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiesti	richiesta	ADJ	A	amod
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
creare	creare	VERB	V	advcl
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingiustificato	ingiustificato	ADJ	A	amod
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
recare	recare	VERB	V	conj
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
analoghe	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl:agent
geografico	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	A	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
correttezza	correttezza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contrastino	contrastare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
accreditati	accreditare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
origine	origine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinati	determinato	DET	DI	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
svolgano	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegati	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incluse	incluse	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
servire	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
designare	designare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
peraltro	peraltro	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rifiutare	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiesti	richiesta	ADJ	A	amod
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
creare	creare	VERB	V	advcl
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingiustificato	ingiustificato	ADJ	A	amod
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
recare	recare	VERB	V	conj
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
analoghe	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl:agent
geografico	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	A	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
correttezza	correttezza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contrastino	contrastare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11-ter	11-ter	NOUN	S	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Marchio	Marchio	NOUN	S	appos
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
licenziatari	licenziatario	NOUN	S	conj
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	csubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
continuativo	continuativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
produttiva	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccellenza	eccellenza	NOUN	S	nmod
storicamente	storicamente	ADV	B	advmod
collegata	collegare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
storici	storico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
185-bis	185-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
logo	logo	NOUN	S	nsubj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	compound
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj
iscritte	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
185-bis	185-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
promozionali	promozionale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
specificati	specificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
logo	logo	NOUN	S	nmod
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Novità	Novità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
identici	identico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simili	simile	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
noto	noto	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segno	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
fabbricati	fabbricato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
messi	mettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prestati	prestare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affini	affino	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
somiglianza	somiglianza	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
determinarsi	determinare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
confusione	confusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
noto	noto	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stoccolma	Stoccolma	PROPN	SP	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	CC	aux:pass
notoriamente	notoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
conosciuto	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notorietà	notorietà	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
importi	importare	VERB	V	advcl
notorietà	notorietà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importi	importo	ADJ	A	conj
notorietà	notorietà	NOUN	S	obj
puramente	puramente	ADV	B	advmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
toglie	togliere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
novità	novità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
preutente	preutente	ADV	B	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
continuare	continuare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonostante	nonostante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dante	dante	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
ostacolo	ostacolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
identici	identico	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simili	simile	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
noto	noto	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insegna	insegnare	VERB	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
dominio	dominio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
somiglianza	somiglianza	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	dep
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
determinarsi	determinare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
confusione	confusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
importi	importare	VERB	V	advcl
notorietà	notorietà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importi	importo	ADJ	A	conj
notorietà	notorietà	NOUN	S	obj
puramente	puramente	ADV	B	advmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
toglie	togliere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
novità	novità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dante	dante	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
ostacolo	ostacolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
identici	identico	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	PI	amod
registrato	registrare	VERB	S	nmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avente	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
preesistenza	preesistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
identici	identico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simili	simile	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	PI	amod
registrato	registrare	VERB	S	obl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avente	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
preesistenza	preesistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affini	affino	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
somiglianza	somiglianza	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
determinarsi	determinare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
confusione	confusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
identici	identico	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simili	simile	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	PI	amod
registrato	registrare	VERB	S	obl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avente	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
preesistenza	preesistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affini	affino	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
affini	affino	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
goda	godere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinomanza	rinomanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giusto	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
trarrebbe	trarere	VERB	V	conj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinomanza	rinomanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
recherebbe	recherebbe	VERB	V	conj
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
identici	identico	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simili	simile	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
notoriamente	notoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
conosciuto	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affini	affino	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
affini	affino	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	det:poss
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
toglie	togliere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
novità	novità	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
tre	tre	NUM	N	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
considerarsi	considerare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
decaduto	decadere	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	compound
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilate	assimilare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	obl
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	amod
registrati	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
distintiva	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obj
privi	privo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
consistono	consistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obl
divenuti	divenuto	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
linguaggio	linguaggio	NOUN	S	obl
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	conj
costanti	costanto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
generiche	generico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
descrittive	descrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
servire	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
designare	designare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
epoca	epoca	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquistato	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	conj
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
forma	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquistato	acquistare	VERB	V	advcl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inattività	inattività	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuto	divenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	compound
generica	generico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
perduto	perdere	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
distintiva	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Liceità	Liceità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	ROOT
contrari	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	ROOT
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ingannare	ingannare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obl
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obl
evocativi	evocativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
usurpativi	usurpativo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imitativi	imitativo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	conj
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inclusi	includere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	conj
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituirebbe	costituirebbe	VERB	V	acl:relcl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	conj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nsubj
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
menzioni	menzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tradizionali	tradizionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
vini	vine	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
quater	quater	PROPN	SP	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specialità	specialità	NOUN	S	nmod
tradizionali	tradizionale	ADJ	A	amod
garantite	garantito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nsubj
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
quinquies	quinquies	X	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riproducono	riproducere	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
registrata	registrare	VERB	V	acl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nsubj
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
apparentate	apparentato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilate	assimilare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
conferisca	conferire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzata	autorizzare	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	dep
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuto	divenire	VERB	V	advcl
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
indurre	indurre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuto	divenire	VERB	V	advcl
contrario	contrario	NOUN	S	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omessa	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
ragionevolmente	ragionevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trattandosi	Trattandosi	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	parataxis


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
data	data	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
esplica	esplico	ADJ	A	amod
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
affini	affino	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dura	duro	ADJ	V	ROOT
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
diviene	divenire	VERB	V	ROOT
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	conj
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rinnovazione	rinnovazione	PROPN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
risultante	risultante	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Nizza	Nizza	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1977	1977	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
243	243	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	VA	ROOT
immutate	immutare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Registrazione	Registrazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Rimangono	Rimangono	VERB	S	ROOT
ferme	ferme	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
OMPI	OMPI	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	appos
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
OMPI	OMPI	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stoccolma	Stoccolma	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
Protocollo	Protocollo	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
27	27	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
169	169	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recanti	recante	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	parataxis
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
designanti	designare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obj
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Protezione	Protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accordata	accordare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
apposti	apporre	VERB	A	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
figurano	figurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
esposizioni	esposizione	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ufficiali	ufficiale	ADJ	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ufficialmente	ufficialmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciute	riconoscere	VERB	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accordi	accordo	VERB	S	advcl
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
risalire	risalire	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
inerente	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ccomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simili	simile	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affini	affino	ADJ	A	conj
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
date	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
menzionate	menzionare	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
utilizzi	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proponga	propongare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
utilizzarlo	utilizzare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	conj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
mala	malo	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
grafici	grafico	ADJ	A	amod
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
tratti	tratti	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
storico	storico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
architettonico	architettonico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merchandising	merchandising	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dovranno	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	NOUN	S	nmod
disavanzi	disavanzi	ADJ	A	amod
pregressi	pregressi	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
consistono	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	dep
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
usare	usare	VERB	V	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obj
identico	identico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obl
identico	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simile	simile	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affini	affino	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
somiglianza	somiglianza	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
determinarsi	determinare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
confusione	confusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	conj
identico	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simile	simile	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
affini	affino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
goda	godere	VERB	V	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinomanza	rinomanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contraddistinguere	contraddistinguere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giusto	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarre	trarre	VERB	V	xcomp
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinomanza	rinomanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reca	recare	VERB	V	conj
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
menzionati	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
apporre	apporre	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
confezioni	confezione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

di	di	ADP	E	mark
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
immetterli	immettere li	VERB	V_PC	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
detenerli	detenere li	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
contraddistinti	contraddistintare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

di	di	ADP	E	mark
importare	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esportare	esportare	VERB	V	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
contraddistinti	contraddistingere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

di	di	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(;	(;	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
apporre	apporre	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
confezioni	confezione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etichette	etichetta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cartellini	cartellino	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
apposto	apporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
immettere	immettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detenere	detenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importare	importare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esportare	esportare	VERB	V	conj
tali	tale	DET	DD	amod
mezzi	mezzo	ADJ	A	obj
recanti	recante	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	amod
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
introdurre	introdurre	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
pratica	pratica	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
detti	dire	VERB	V	advcl
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imballaggio	imballaggio	NOUN	S	nsubj
provengono	provengere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
recano	recare	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obj
identico	identico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
distinto	distinto	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	obl
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
rientrino	rientrare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
instaurato	instaurare	VERB	V	advcl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
608/2013	608/2013	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
12	12	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
fornisca	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
commerciante	commerciante	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
apporre	apporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
mette	mettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sopprimere	sopprimere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commerciante	commerciante	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
merci	merce	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dizionario	dizionario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
enciclopedia	enciclopedia	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
analoga	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
opera	opera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
formato	formato	NOUN	S	nmod
cartaceo	cartaceo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	conj
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impressione	impressione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
generico	generico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
editore	editore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
tardi	tardi	ADV	B	fixed
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
edizione	edizione	NOUN	S	conj
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
formato	formato	NOUN	S	nmod
cartaceo	cartaceo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limitazioni	Limitazioni	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
permettono	permettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
correttezza	correttezza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
epoca	epoca	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
identificare	identificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pezzi	pezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricambio	ricambio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
usare	usare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ingenerare	ingenerare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
confusione	confusione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obl
conosciuti	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
distintivi	distintivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	mark
indurre	indurre	VERB	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ledere	ledere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	conj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
illiceità	illiceità	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Unitarietà	Unitarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ccomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insegna	insegnare	VERB	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
dominio	dominio	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nsubj
uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simile	simile	ADJ	A	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quei	quello	DET	DD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
determinarsi	determinare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
confusione	confusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
come	come	ADP	E	case
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insegna	insegnare	VERB	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
dominio	dominio	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obj
uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simile	simile	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
affini	affino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
goda	godere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinomanza	rinomanza	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giusto	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarre	trarre	VERB	V	xcomp
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinomanza	rinomanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reca	recare	VERB	V	conj
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferito	trasferire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
totalità	totalità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
totalità	totalità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
totalità	totalità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
obblighi	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
usare	usare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
contraddistinguere	contraddistinguere	VERB	V	advcl
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
eguali	eguale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prestati	prestato	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
licenziatari	licenziatario	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
far	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
violi	violare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
fabbricati	fabbricato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
prestati	prestare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
derivare	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
quei	quello	DET	DD	det
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
apprezzamento	apprezzamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
formare	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
ininterrotto	ininterrotto	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
giustificato	giustificare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
designante	designante	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stoccolma	Stoccolma	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
169	169	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	advmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
scade	scadere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
formulare	formulare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obj
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
conferma	confermare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soddisfatti	soddisfare	ADJ	A	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl:agent
legittimato	legittimare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
modificata	modificato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
registrata	registrare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
alteri	alterare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
confezioni	confezione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iniziato	iniziare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ripreso	riprendere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
preparativi	preparativo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ripresa	ripresa	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
saputo	sapere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
sta	stare	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ripresa	riprendere	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

tale	tale	DET	DD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
peraltro	peraltro	DET	DI	advmod
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	obj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
avrà	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
simili	simile	ADJ	A	amod
tuttora	tuttora	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
faccia	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
contraddistinguere	contraddistinguere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	conj
sussista	sussistare	VERB	V	nmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impedimenti	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
10	10	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
14	14	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
19	19	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11-bis	11-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
conformi	conforme	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
modificando	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26	26	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decadenza	Decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
volgarizzazione	volgarizzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
illiceità	illiceità	NOUN	S	nmod
sopravvenuta	sopravvenire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decadenza	Decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Convalidazione	Convalidazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
preuso	preuso	NOUN	S	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
importi	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notorietà	notorietà	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
puramente	puramente	ADV	B	advmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
consecutivi	consecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tollerato	tollerare	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendone	essendonere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	ADJ	A	amod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simile	simile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
domandare	domandare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	ADJ	A	amod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
preuso	preuso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	A	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
domandato	domandare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
mala	malo	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preuso	preuso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrare	ADJ	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14	14	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Indicazioni	Indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
identificano	identificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
paese	paese	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
località	località	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
designare	designare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
originario	originario	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
reputazione	reputazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	conj
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	obl
geografico	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprensivo	comprensivo	NOUN	S	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fattori	fattore	NOUN	S	nmod
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
umani	umano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tradizione	tradizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
30	30	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tutela	Tutela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salva	salvare	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sleale	sleale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ingannare	ingannare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obj
indebito	indebito	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reputazione	reputazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indichino	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
suggeriscano	suggeriscare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
proviene	provenire	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
località	località	NOUN	S	obl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vero	vero	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
proprie	proprio	DET	A	acl:relcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provengono	provenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
località	località	NOUN	S	obl
designata	designare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
permette	permettere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	ccomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
dante	dante	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usato	usare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ingannare	ingannare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disegni	disegni	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aspetto	aspetto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contorni	contorno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colori	colore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
superficiale	superficiale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ornamento	ornamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	ccomp
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	conj
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
artigianale	artigianale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assemblati	assemblare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
formare	formare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
presentazioni	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
simboli	simbolo	NOUN	S	conj
grafici	grafico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	conj
tipografici	tipografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
elaboratore	elaboratore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
formato	formare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituiti	sostituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consentendo	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
smontaggio	smontaggio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
montaggio	montaggio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Novità	Novità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un	uno	DET	RI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
identico	identico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
divulgato	divulgare	VERB	V	advcl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rivendichi	rivendicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
reputano	reputano	VERB	V	ROOT
identici	identico	ADJ	A	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj
differiscono	differire	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
dettagli	dettaglio	NOUN	S	obl
irrilevanti	irrilevanto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33	33	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un	uno	DET	RI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impressione	impressione	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
suscita	suscire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzatore	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	obl
informato	informato	ADJ	A	amod
differisce	differire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
impressione	impressione	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
suscitata	suscitare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
utilizzatore	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
divulgato	divulgare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rivendichi	rivendicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
prende	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
margine	margine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
beneficiato	beneficiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33-bis	33-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Liceità	Liceità	NOUN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
impropria	improprio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stoccolma	Stoccolma	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emblemi	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stemmi	stemmo	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivestono	rivestire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34	34	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
33	33	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
divulgato	divulgare	VERB	V	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esposto	esporre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
messo	mettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
potessero	potere	AUX	V	aux:pass
ragionevolmente	ragionevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conosciuti	conoscere	VERB	V	ccomp
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambienti	ambiente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
specializzati	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
operanti	operare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rivendichi	rivendicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
reso	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivelato	rivelare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
esplicito	esplicito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
implicito	implicito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
33	33	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
reso	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
divulgato	divulgare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	conj
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
virtù	virtù	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rivendichi	rivendicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
33	33	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34-bis	34-bis	PROPN	V_PC	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Protezione	Protezione	NOUN	S	appos
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
figurano	figurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ufficialmente	ufficialmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuta	riconosciere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accordi	accordo	VERB	S	ccomp
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
made	made	X	SW	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italy	Italy	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
detta	dire	VERB	V	acl
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
incorporano	incorporare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicati	applicare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
risale	risalire	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
ottengono	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
35	35	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
applicato	applicato	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incorporato	incorporare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
componente	componente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
possiede	possedere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	conj
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
componente	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
incorporato	incorporare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimane	rimanere	VERB	V	parataxis
visibile	visibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cioè	cioè	ADV	B	advmod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatore	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj
visibili	visibile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componente	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
possiedono	possiedono	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
per	per	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PE	fixed
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
individualità	individualità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
36	36	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Funzione	Funzione	PROPN	SP	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
quelle	quello	DET	DD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspetto	aspetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
unicamente	unico	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
formare	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspetto	aspetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
necessariamente	necessariamente	ADV	B	advmod
riprodotte	riprodovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
esatte	esatto	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimensioni	dimensione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obl
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	csubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incorporato	incorporare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
unito	unire	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
connesso	connesso	VERB	V	conj
meccanicamente	meccanicamente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
incorporato	incorporare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
intorno	intorno	ADV	B	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possiedono	possiedono	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	conj
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unione	unione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	conj
multipla	Multipla	PROPN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
intercambiabili	intercambiabile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
modulare	modulare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
37	37	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
dura	duro	VERB	V	ROOT
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	B	conj
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
venticinque	venticinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38	38	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
patto	patto	NOUN	S	nsubj
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
opera	opera	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obl
rientri	rientro	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	parataxis
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
inserire	inserire	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
pone	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzioni	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
grafiche	grafico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
descrizioni	descrizione	NOUN	S	conj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accessibilità	accessibilità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
39	39	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Registrazione	Registrazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
multipla	Multipla	ADV	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
più	più	ADV	B	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attuati	attuare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incorporati	incorporare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
classe	classe	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formata	formare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Locarno	Locarno	PROPN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1968	1968	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1974	1974	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
348	348	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
più	più	DET	DI	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ammissibile	ammissibile	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnandogli	assegnandoe lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ammissibile	ammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimanenti	rimanento	ADJ	A	amod
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrettante	altrettante	ADV	B	advmod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avranno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
più	più	DET	DI	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	PRON	PI	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuta	mantenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
modificata	modificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
conserva	conservare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
modificazione	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiari	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40	40	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Registrazione	Registrazione	NOUN	SP	nmod
contemporanea	contemporaneo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
possiede	possedere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrabilità	registrabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
accresce	accrescere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesti	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
contemporaneamente	contemporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
venire	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cumulate	cumulare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
conferisca	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
accresca	accrere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apportando	apportare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
41	41	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
conferisce	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzarlo	utilizzare lo	VERB	V_PC	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
utilizzarlo	utilizzare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Costituiscono	Costituiscono	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incorporato	incorporare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estendono	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produca	producare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzatore	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	obl
informato	informare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
impressione	impressione	NOUN	S	obj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
42	42	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limitazioni	Limitazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estendono	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sperimentazione	sperimentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
citazioni	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
didattici	didattico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
correttezza	correttezza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudichino	pregiudichino	VERB	V	ROOT
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
fonte	fonte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
esercitabili	esercitabile	ADJ	A	ROOT

riguardo	riguardo	ADV	B	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arredo	arredo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
installazioni	installazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
locomozione	locomozione	NOUN	S	nmod
navale	navale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aerea	aereo	ADJ	A	conj
immatricolati	immatricolare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
entrano	entrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pezzi	pezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricambio	ricambio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riparazioni	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
43	43	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
registrabile	registrabile	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
32	32	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
33	33	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
34	34	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
35	35	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
36	36	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aveva	avere	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenerla	ottenere la	VERB	V_PC	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvalso	avvalso	VERB	V	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
accordategli	accordategli	VERB	V_PC	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
noto	noto	ADJ	A	xcomp
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rivendichi	rivendicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
tale	tale	PRON	PD	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituirebbe	costituirebbe	VERB	A	advcl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingegno	ingegno	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	proteggere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
d'	di	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
impropria	improprio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stoccolma	Stoccolma	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emblemi	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stemmi	stemmo	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivestono	rivestire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
forma	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
promossa	promossa	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
unicamente	unicamente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
impropria	improprio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emblemi	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stemmi	stemma	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivestono	rivestire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
unicamente	unico	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44	44	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Invenzioni	invenzioni	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
implicano	implicare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
inventiva	inventivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
atte	atto	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
scoperte	scoperta	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
teorie	teoria	NOUN	S	conj
scientifiche	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
matematici	matematico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
piani	piano	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuali	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gioco	gioco	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
elaboratore	elaboratore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
presentazioni	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
escludono	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
brevettabilità	brevettabilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
scoperte	scoperta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
teorie	teoria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
piani	piano	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
principi	principe	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentazioni	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
tali	tale	ADJ	PD	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
chirurgico	chirurgico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
terapeutico	terapeutico	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
umano	umano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
animale	animale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diagnosi	diagnosi	NOUN	S	nmod
applicati	applicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obl
umano	umano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
animale	animale	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
razze	razza	NOUN	S	conj
animali	animale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obj
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
consista	consistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	obl
genetica	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
detta	dire	VERB	V	advcl
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	xcomp
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
frutto	frutto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
genetica	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	ROOT
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
iscritte	iscrittere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Anagrafe	Anagrafe	PROPN	SP	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
biodiversità	biodiversità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
agricolo	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alimentare	alimentare	ADJ	A	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
produzioni	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
contraddistinte	contraddistinte	ADV	B	advmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	proteggere	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
specialità	specialità	NOUN	S	conj
tradizionali	tradizionale	ADJ	A	amod
garantite	garantito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
agroalimentari	agroalimentario	ADJ	A	amod
tradizionali	tradizionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
microbiologici	microbiologico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
composizioni	composizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
biotecnologiche	biotecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
81-quinquies	81-quinquies	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresa	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	DI	det
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
orale	orale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pure	pure	ADV	B	advmod
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
compreso	comprendere	VERB	S	obl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
designanti	designare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	appos
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
designanti	designante	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
menzionata	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicate	pubblicare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rese	rendere	VERB	V	conj
accessibili	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
tardi	tardi	ADV	B	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
escludono	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
brevettabilità	brevettabilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sostanza	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
compresa	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divulgazioni	Divulgazioni	PROPN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opponibili	opponibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
interna	interno	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presa	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
precedono	precedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
evidente	evidente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dante	dante	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presa	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
esposizioni	esposizione	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiali	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ufficialmente	ufficialmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciute	riconoscere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
esposizioni	esposizione	NOUN	S	obj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
firmata	firmare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
22	22	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1928	1928	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rivendicata	rivendicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
48	48	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
valutarsi	valutare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risale	risalire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
una	uno	DET	RI	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rivendica	rivendicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
48	48	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
inventiva	inventivo	ADJ	V	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
implicante	implicante	ADV	B	advmod
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
inventiva	inventivo	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
esperta	esperto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ramo	ramo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
evidente	evidente	ADJ	A	amod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apprezzamento	apprezzamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
inventiva	inventivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Industrialità	Industrialità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
atta	atto	VERB	V	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fabbricato	fabbricare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
genere	genere	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
50	50	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Liceità	Liceità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
51	51	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
unirsi	unire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
intelligenza	intelligenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
descritta	descriggere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
sufficientemente	sufficientemente	ADV	B	advmod
chiaro	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
completo	completo	ADJ	A	conj
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
esperta	esperto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ramo	ramo	NOUN	S	nmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
attuarla	attuare la	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contraddistinta	contraddistingere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
microbiologico	microbiologico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
implica	implicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
microrganismo	microrganismo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
descritto	descrivere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	DET	DD	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	mark
permettere	permettere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
esperta	esperto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ramo	ramo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
dovranno	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
52	52	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rivendicazioni	Rivendicazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
formare	formare	VERB	V	ccomp
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalle	dalle	ADP	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
servono	servire	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
interpretare	interpretare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
intesa	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contempo	contempo	NOUN	S	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
equa	equo	ADJ	A	amod
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ragionevole	ragionevole	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dovuto	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
53	53	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volerla	volere lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	ccomp
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
pone	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
allegati	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
54	54	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presunto	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
contraffattore	contraffattore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	Salvo	ADJ	A	discourse
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
nulli	nullo	ADJ	A	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	obl:agent
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
respinta	respintare	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
55	55	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
equivale	equivalere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
rivendicata	rivendicare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
160-bis	160-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	advmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presunto	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
contraffattore	contraffattore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
priva	privo	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
sin	sino	ADV	B	case
dall'	da il	DET	E_RD	det
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	conj
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
respinta	respintare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
160-bis	160-bis	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
56	56	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
unitario	unitario	ADJ	A	amod
conferiscono	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
unificato	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impongono	imporre	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
unitario	unitario	ADJ	A	amod
producono	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetto	soggetto	VERB	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
modificata	modificato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
confermato	confermare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitato	limitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
perfettamente	perfettamente	ADV	B	advmod
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
originale	originale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazioni	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
europei	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
unitario	unitario	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1257/2012	1257/2012	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revoca	revocare	NOUN	V	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
unitario	unitario	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fin	fino	ADV	B	case
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	det
origine	origine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
57	57	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fede	Fede	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
concesso	concesso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
facente	facente	VERB	V	xcomp
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
conferisca	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
estesa	esteso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Una	uno	DET	RI	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rettificata	rettificato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

essa	esso	PRON	PE	ROOT
esplica	esplicare	ADJ	V	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presunto	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
contraffattore	contraffattore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cominciato	cominciare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	obj
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
preparativi	preparativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
detta	dire	VERB	V	advcl
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
inizialmente	inizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
presentata	presentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
bisogni	bisogno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
rettificata	rettificato	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
preso	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
58	58	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designata	designare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasformata	trasformare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
respinta	respintare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	conj
ritirata	ritirato	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
unitario	unitario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettabilità	brevettabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiedano	richiedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	csubj
contemporaneamente	contemporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
depositata	depositare	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annessi	annesso	ADJ	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
detta	detta	NOUN	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
59	59	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rapporti	Rapporti	PROPN	SP	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
unitario	unitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
mantiene	mantenere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coesiste	coesista	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
continuano	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicarsi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
60	60	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Durata	Durata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
dura	durare	VERB	V	ROOT
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scade	scadere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
spirare	spirare	VERB	V	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
istante	istante	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esserne	essere ne	AUX	VA_PC	aux:pass
prorogata	prorogare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
61	61	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Certificato	Certificato	VERB	SP	nmod
complementare	complementare	ADJ	V	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
medicinali	medicinale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
fitosanitari	fitosanitario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
certificati	certificati	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
complementari	complementare	NOUN	S	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
medicinali	medicinale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
fitosanitari	fitosanitaro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
469/2009	469/2009	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1901/2006	1901/2006	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1610/96	1610/96	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
producono	produrre	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62	62	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
autore	autore	NOUN	S	xcomp
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
incluso	incluso	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
63	63	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
nascenti	nascere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
autore	autore	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
alienabili	alienabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmissibili	trasmissibile	NOUN	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
64	64	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Invenzioni	Invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
inventiva	inventivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	conj
retribuita	retribuitare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esserne	essere ne	AUX	VA_PC	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
autore	autore	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
inventiva	inventivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
autore	autore	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ottengano	ottengare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzino	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
premio	premio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
terrà	terrà	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	A	amod
svolte	svolta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
percepita	percepire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
questi	questi	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
premio	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anticipato	anticipato	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
volta	volre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rientri	rientrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opzione	opzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
brevetti	brevetto	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
fissarsi	fissare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondente	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aiuti	aiuto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ricevuti	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
pervenire	pervenire	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
potrà	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opzione	opzione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opzione	opzione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
risolvono	risolvere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
pagato	pagare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
corrispettivo	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	obj
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Ferma	Ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
premio	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
raggiunga	raggiunere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	parataxis
un	uno	DET	RI	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitratori	arbitratore	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
composto	comporre	VERB	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
due	due	NUM	N	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
disaccordo	disaccordo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzata	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
prestatore	prestatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
806	806	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitratori	arbitratore	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adito	adire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
premio	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecutività	esecutività	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitratori	arbitratore	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
apprezzamento	apprezzamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	advcl
iniqua	iniqua	NOUN	A	ROOT
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
erronea	erroneare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
fatta	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
lasciato	lasciare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	obj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
65	65	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Invenzioni	Invenzioni	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatori	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
scientifico	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
IRCCS	IRCCS	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
università	università	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuta	riconosciere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
scientifico	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
IRCCS	IRCCS	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
nascenti	nascere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
spettano	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esserne	essere ne	AUX	VA_PC	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguita	conseguire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
uguali	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
diversa	diverso	DET	DI	det
pattuizione	pattuizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
onere	onere	VERB	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrambe	entrambi	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
salvaguardare	salvaguardare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
novità	novità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
effettui	effettui	DET	FB	punct
detta	dire	VERB	V	advcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermi	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivendica	rivendica	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunica	comunico	PRON	A	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedervi	Procedervi	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	appos
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
completare	completare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
avviate	avviare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provveda	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
termine	termine	NOUN	S	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedervi	Procedervi	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
studenti	studente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corsi	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
laurea	laurea	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
inventivi	inventivo	ADJ	A	amod
conseguiti	conseguire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
laboratorio	laboratorio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
percorsi	percorso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
laurea	laurea	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
inventori	inventore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
premialità	premialità	NOUN	S	conj
connesse	connesso	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
inventiva	inventivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
finanziatori	finanziatore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
produca	produca	VERB	V	acl:relcl
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
brevettabili	brevettabili	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regolati	regolare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
redatti	redatto	ADJ	V	acl
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
aspetto	aspetto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
migliori	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
valorizzazione	valorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
realizzata	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziata	finanziare	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
redatti	redatto	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
guida	guida	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
individuano	individuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
made	made	X	SW	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italy	Italy	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatti	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
stipulati	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
emanazione	emanazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
guida	guida	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	Art.	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
65-bis	65-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uffici	Uffici	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnologico	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
universitarie	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alta	alto	ADJ	A	amod
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
artistica	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
musicale	musicale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coreutica	coreutico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
IRCCS	IRCCS	PROPN	SP	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dotarsi	dotare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
associativa	associativo	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnologico	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
valorizzazione	valorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazioni	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
66	66	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
consistono	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
conferisce	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
usare	usare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vendere	vendere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importare	importare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
usare	usare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vendere	vendere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importare	importare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
conferisce	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	dep
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aventi	avere	VERB	V	obl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
brevettata	brevettato	ADJ	V	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
protetta	proteggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
averla	avere la	VERB	V_PC	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
diligenza	diligenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
correntemente	correntemente	ADJ	B	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
induca	induca	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
vietati	vietare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-quater	2-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
aventi	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
compiono	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
67	67	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Brevetto	brevetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
identico	identico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
brevettato	brevettato	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
ottenuto	ottenere	ADJ	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alternativamente	alternativamente	NOUN	B	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sostanziale	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
probabilità	probabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
identico	identico	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fabbricato	fabbricare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riuscito	riuscire	VERB	V	conj
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
ragionevoli	ragionevole	NOUN	S	amod
sforzi	sforzo	NOUN	S	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
attuato	attuare	VERB	A	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
somministra	somministra	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
univocamente	univocamente	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dato	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	advcl
patti	patto	NOUN	S	nsubj
contrari	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
68	68	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limitazioni	Limitazioni	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	ADP	PR	mark
che	che	PRON	PR	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	advcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	FF	fixed
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
sperimentale	sperimentale	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
brevettata	brevettato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coltivazione	coltivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scoperta	scoperta	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sperimentazioni	sperimentazione	NOUN	S	conj
diretti	diretti	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ottenimento	ottenimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
farmaco	farmaco	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenti	conseguente	NOUN	S	conj
adempimenti	adempimente	ADJ	A	amod
pratici	pratico	ADJ	A	amod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
farmacologicamente	farmacologicamente	ADV	B	advmod
attive	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	DD	obl
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
estemporanea	estemporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
ricetta	ricetta	NOUN	S	nmod
medica	medico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	conj
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
preparati	preparato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	ROOT
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
brevettata	brevettato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
bordo	bordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	VERB	V_PC	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sartiame	sartiame	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attrezzatura	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nsubj
entrino	entrare	VERB	V	advcl
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accidentalmente	accidentalmente	ADV	B	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	obl
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
brevettata	brevettato	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	conj
terrestri	terrestro	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	conj
terrestri	terrestro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
entrino	entrare	VERB	V	advcl
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accidentalmente	accidentalmente	ADV	B	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	ferma	ADJ	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
navigazione	navigazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aviazione	aviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stipulata	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Chicago	Chicago	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
7	7	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1944	1944	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	obl
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1948	1948	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
616	616	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
561	561	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
implichi	implicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
protette	protetto	VERB	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attuato	attuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimi	ultimo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
continuare	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
usarne	usare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preuso	preuso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
trasferibile	trasferibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preuso	preuso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preutente	preutente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
69	69	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Onere	Onere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attuata	attuare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	ADJ	DD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
sproporzione	sproporzione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
bisogni	bisogno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
figurano	figurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ufficialmente	ufficialmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuta	riconosciere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
attuate	attuare	VERB	V	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
introdotti	introdurre	VERB	V	advcl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esposti	esporre	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotti	prodotto	VERB	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	ADJ	SP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Spazio	Spazio	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
70	70	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Licenza	Licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trascorsi	Trascorsi	VERB	V	advcl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
scade	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
licenziatari	licenziatare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
attuato	attuare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
brevettata	brevettato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
producendo	producere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importando	importare	VERB	V	conj
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
prodotti	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	ADJ	SP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Spazio	Spazio	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	lo	DET	PC	obj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
attuata	attuare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
sproporzione	sproporzione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
bisogni	bisogno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux:pass
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
venire	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ridotta	ridotto	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	dep
da	da	ADP	E	mark
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
sproporzione	sproporzione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
bisogni	bisogno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
insufficiente	insufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
indipendenti	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diffuso	diffuso	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
brevettato	brevettato	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
brevettato	brevettato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esonera	esonerare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attuata	attuare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	det
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
sproporzione	sproporzione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
bisogni	bisogno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
81-octies	81-octies	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
unitario	unitario	ADJ	A	amod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
70-bis	70-bis	PROPN	FC	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Licenza	Licenza	PROPN	SP	appos
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
emergenza	emergenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
emergenza	emergenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
motivato	motivare	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	advcl
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
comprovate	comprovato	ADJ	A	amod
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	NOUN	S	amod
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
medici	medico	ADJ	A	amod
ritenuti	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesse	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
europei	europeo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	dep
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
alienabile	alienabile	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	conj
prevalentemente	prevalentemente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
produttivi	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
vincolata	vincolare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdurare	perdurare	VERB	V	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
emergenziale	emergenziale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
parere	parere	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
farmaco	farmaco	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
essenzialità	essenzialità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
farmaci	farmaco	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
emergenza	emergenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
medici	medico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
parere	parere	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitari	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
essenzialità	essenzialità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
emergenza	emergenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
71	71	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Brevetto	Brevetto	NOUN	SP	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
protetta	proteggere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	ADV	B	nsubj:pass
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sfruttare	sfruttare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
rappresenti	rappresentare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importante	importante	ADJ	A	amod
progresso	progresso	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
considerevole	considerevole	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuta	ottenuto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
cedibile	cedibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
volta	volta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ragionevoli	ragionevole	ADJ	V	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
72	72	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
domandi	domandare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
70-bis	70-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
71	71	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
provare	provare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essersi	essere si	AUX	VA_PC	aux
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
rivolto	rivolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	det:predet
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eque	eque	ADJ	A	fixed
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	VERB	V	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
fornisca	fornire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
soddisfacente	soddisfacente	ADJ	A	amod
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
contraffatto	contraffare	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dimostri	dimostro	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl
prevalentemente	prevalentemente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimanente	rimanente	NOUN	S	obl
durata	durata	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferita	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ramo	ramo	NOUN	S	conj
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
variate	variare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ognuna	ognuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
validi	valido	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
70-bis	70-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
modificazione	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	V	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
conceda	concedere	VERB	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggiose	vantaggioso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
estese	estendere	ADJ	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
73	73	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Revoca	revoca	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
adempiute	adempiere	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
prescritte	prescritto	NOUN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
cessino	cessino	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esistere	esistere	VERB	V	acl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
improbabile	improbabile	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tornino	tornare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
concorde	concordo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pronta	pronto	ADJ	DI	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
motivatamente	motivatamente	NOUN	S	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
199	199	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
colui	colui	PRON	PD	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preuso	preuso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
preparativi	preparativo	NOUN	S	obl
seri	serio	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
74	74	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Invenzioni	Invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
insufficiente	insufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
brevettate	brevettato	ADJ	A	amod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
75	75	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decadenza	Decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
dovuto	dovere	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trascorso	Trascorso	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trascorsi	trascorrere	VERB	V	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
inutilmente	inutilmente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
notifica	notifico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
raccomandata	raccomandato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
prescritto	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuto	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
anzidetta	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicando	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
poi	poi	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
provi	provare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	bollettino	PROPN	SP	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anzidetta	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
udita	udire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	conj
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
scritte	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tanto	tanto	ADV	B	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presa	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
nota	noto	ADJ	A	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	conj
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Intervenuta	Intervenuta	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trascorsi	trascorrere	VERB	V	conj
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinto	respinto	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
decaduto	decaduto	VERB	V	xcomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagato	pagare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
utilmente	utilmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
76	76	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
brevettabile	brevettabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
46	46	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
48	48	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
49	49	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
50	50	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
descritta	descriggere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
sufficientemente	sufficientemente	ADV	B	advmod
chiaro	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
completo	completo	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
esperta	esperto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attuarla	attuare la	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estesa	estendere	VERB	V	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aveva	avere	VERB	V	advcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenerlo	ottenere lo	VERB	V_PC	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avente	avere	VERB	V	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
valso	valso	VERB	V	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
accordategli	accordategli	VERB	V_PC	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
colpiscono	colpiscere	VERB	V	advcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	obj
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
contenga	contenga	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sarebbe	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
voluto	volere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
avesse	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conosciuto	conoscere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accerta	accertere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prolungamento	prolungamento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
originaria	originario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
licenziatari	licenziatario	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vista	vista	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prossima	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
avevano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
investimenti	investimento	NOUN	S	obj
seri	serio	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gratuita	gratuito	ADJ	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estesa	estendere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
77	77	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
declaratoria	declaratoria	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
retroattivo	retroattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
passate	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
conclusi	concludere	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
accordare	accordare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
versati	versare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
pagamenti	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
65	65	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
premio	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
canone	canone	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
78	78	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rinuncia	Rinuncia	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rinunciare	rinunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
annotare	annotare	VERB	V	advcl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	cop
trascritti	trascritto	VERB	V	advcl
atti	atto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
attribuiscano	attribuiscare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertino	accertino	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziali	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
79	79	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limitazione	limitazione	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitato	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
unirsi	unire si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
modificati	modificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
accolga	accogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovrà	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
conformarsi	conformare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripubblicazione	ripubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riformulazione	riformulazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rimanga	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
quale	quale	DET	DQ	obj
inizialmente	inizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
depositata	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
estenda	estendare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
concesso	concesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
intervenga	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	conj
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
limitazioni	limitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
intervenute	intervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
80	80	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Licenza	Licenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
venga	venire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
trascritta	trascritto	ADJ	A	advcl
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettato	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitratori	arbitratore	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
composto	comporre	VERB	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
due	due	NUM	N	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
disaccordo	disaccordo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitratori	arbitratore	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
apprezzamento	apprezzamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	advcl
iniqua	iniqua	NOUN	A	ROOT
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
erronea	erroneo	ADJ	A	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
arbitratore	arbitratore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
prescritti	prescritto	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
siano	essere	AUX	VA	cop
prodotti	prodotre	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivelati	rivelare	VERB	V	conj
fatti	fare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
apparire	apparire	VERB	V	ccomp
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADV	B	advmod
inadeguato	inadeguare	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
offerto	offrire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotata	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
perdurano	perdurare	VERB	V	conj
finchè	finchè	PRON	PI	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81	81	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	appos
IV-BIS	iV-BIS	ADP	A	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Invenzioni	Invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
biotecnologiche	biotecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81-bis	81-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
1V	1V	NUM	N	nummod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
spiegano	spiegare	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
biotecnologiche	biotecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
derogate	derogare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
81-ter	81-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Definizioni	Definizioni	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
:	:	PUNCT	FC	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	xcomp
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

un	uno	DET	RI	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	ROOT
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
genetiche	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autoriproducibile	autoriproducibile	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
capace	capace	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riprodursi	riprodure si	VERB	V_PC	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
microbiologico	microbiologico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
utilizzi	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
microbiologico	microbiologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
microbiologico	microbiologico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
microbiologico	microbiologico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	advcl
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
fenomeni	fenomeno	NOUN	S	obl
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
quali	quale	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incrocio	incrocio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81-quater	81-quater	NOUN	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Brevettabilità	Brevettabilità	NOUN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
brevettabili	brevettabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
inventiva	inventivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
suscettibili	suscettibile	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	ROOT
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
isolato	isolare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	conj
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
preesistente	preesistente	ADV	B	dep
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavorato	lavorare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	conj
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
preesistente	preesistente	ADV	B	advmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
isolato	isolato	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
umano	umano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
prodotto	prodotto	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
identica	identico	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
descritte	descrivere	VERB	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uomo	uomo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
capace	capace	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
per	per	ADP	E	fixed
se	se	SCONJ	PE	fixed
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	conj
riguardante	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
piante	pianta	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
animali	animale	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	conj
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
caratterizzato	caratterizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
espressione	espressione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
gene	gene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
genoma	genoma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
vista	vista	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ottenimento	ottenimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
specie	specie	NOUN	B	conj
animale	animale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ottenimento	ottenimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
170-bis	170-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81-quinquies	81-quinquies	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esclusioni	Esclusioni	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
esclusioni	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevettabilità	brevettabilità	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	ROOT
umano	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sin	sino	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concepimento	concepimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
vari	vario	ADJ	A	amod
stadi	stadio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
mera	mero	ADJ	A	amod
scoperta	scoperta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresa	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sequenza	sequenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sequenza	sequenza	NOUN	S	conj
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gene	gene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
brevettuale	brevettuale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uomo	uomo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	obl
umana	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
preservazione	preservazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
biodiversità	biodiversità	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
TRIPS	TRIPS	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
riguarda	riguardare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnologico	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
clonazione	clonazione	NOUN	S	nmod
umana	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualunque	qualunque	DET	PI	dep
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nsubj
impiegata	impiegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
stadio	stadio	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
programmato	programmato	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	nmod
donato	donato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
clonazione	clonazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
modificazione	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
genetica	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
germinale	germinale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
umano	umano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
embrioni	embrione	NOUN	S	nmod
umani	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
incluse	includere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cellule	cellula	NOUN	S	nmod
staminali	staminale	ADJ	A	amod
embrionali	embrionale	ADJ	A	amod
umane	umano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
modificazione	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
genetica	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provocare	provocare	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
sofferenze	sofferenza	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
medica	medico	ADJ	A	amod
sostanziale	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
essere	essere	AUX	V	obl
umano	umano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
animale	animale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nsubj
risultanti	risultare	VERB	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
protocolli	protocollo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
screening	screening	NOUN	S	nmod
genetico	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
conduca	conduca	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
stigmatizzazione	stigmatizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
umani	umano	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
basi	base	NOUN	S	obl
genetiche	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
patologiche	patologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
razziali	razziale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etniche	etnico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obj
eugenetiche	eugenetico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
diagnostiche	diagnostico	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
sequenza	sequenza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
DNA	DNA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sequenza	sequenza	NOUN	S	appos
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gene	gene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proteina	proteina	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proteina	proteina	NOUN	S	conj
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cop
specificatamente	specificatamente	ADV	B	advmod
rivendicata	rivendicato	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
sequenza	sequenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
brevettuali	brevettuale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequenze	sequenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sovrapposte	sovrapposto	VERB	V	amod
solamente	solamente	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevettabilità	brevettabilità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
utilizzi	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
cellule	cellula	NOUN	S	obj
embrionali	embrionale	ADJ	A	amod
umane	umano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81-sexies	81-sexies	NUM	N	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estensione	Estensione	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
dotato	dotato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
derivati	derivare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
identica	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
differenziata	differenziare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dotati	dotare	VERB	V	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
dotato	dotato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
derivato	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
identica	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
differenziata	differenziare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dotato	dotare	VERB	V	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
81-quinquies	81-quinquies	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
contenente	contenere	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consistente	consistente	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
genetica	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incorporato	incorporare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
genetica	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
contenuta	contenuto	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81-septies	81-septies	NUM	S	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limiti	Limiti	PROPN	SP	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
81-sexies	81-sexies	PROPN	SP	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
commercializzato	commercializzare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
derivi	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
necessariamente	necessariamente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commercializzato	commercializzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ottenuto	ottenuto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
riproduzioni	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
moltiplicazioni	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81-octies	81-octies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Licenza	Licenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	proteggere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardante	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
biotecnologica	biotecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativa	NOUN	A	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ritrovato	ritrovato	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
72	72	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativa	NOUN	A	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ritrovati	ritrovato	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	S	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
reciprocamente	reciprocamente	ADJ	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rivolto	rivolgere	VERB	V	advcl
invano	invano	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativa	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritrovati	ritrovato	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	conj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
progresso	progresso	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
significativo	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
notevole	notevole	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	conj
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
conferire	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comodità	comodità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utensili	utensile	ADJ	A	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obl
consistenti	consistente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
conformazioni	conformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
configurazioni	configurazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
combinazioni	combinazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estendono	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
conseguono	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
utilizzino	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
concetto	concetto	NOUN	S	obj
innovativo	innovativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
83	83	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
84	84	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Brevettazione	Brevettazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
alternativa	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
contemporaneamente	contemporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
valere	valere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obj
anziché	anziché	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
viceversa	viceversa	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnandogli	assegnandoe lo	VERB	V_PC	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
originaria	originario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod

un	uno	DET	RI	det
'	'	DET	E_RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
viceversa	viceversa	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
85	85	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dura	duro	ADJ	A	amod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scade	scadere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
spirare	spirare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
istante	istante	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
conferiti	conferito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolati	regolare	VERB	V	ROOT
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
86	86	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spiegano	spiegare	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
estese	estendere	ADJ	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Topografie	Topografie	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
87	87	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	obl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
intermedio	intermedio	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
consistente	consistente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
strato	strato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
semiconduttore	semiconduttore	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
strati	strato	NOUN	S	conj
composti	composto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
conduttore	conduttore	NOUN	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
isolante	isolante	ADV	B	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
semiconduttore	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposti	disposto	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
schema	schema	NOUN	S	obl
tridimensionale	tridimensionale	ADJ	A	amod
prestabilito	prestabilito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
insieme	insieme	ADP	E	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
serie	serie	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
correlati	correlato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
codificati	codificare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
schema	schema	NOUN	S	obj
tridimensionale	tridimensionale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strati	strato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
compone	comporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
qual	quale	PRON	DQ	det:poss
serie	serie	NOUN	S	obl
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
immagine	immagine	NOUN	S	nsubj
riproduce	riprodurre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
superficie	superficie	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stadio	stadio	NOUN	S	nmod
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
88	88	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Requisiti	Requisiti	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
topografie	topografia	NOUN	A	amod
risultanti	risultante	NOUN	S	obj
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sforzo	sforzo	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
creativo	creativo	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
topografie	topografia	ADJ	A	amod
risultanti	risultante	NOUN	S	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
combinazione	combinazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	obl
soddisfino	soddisfino	VERB	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
89	89	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografie	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proteggibilità	proteggibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
spettano	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
creata	creare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
creata	creare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
spetta	spetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
committente	committente	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
90	90	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografie	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
consistono	consistere	VERB	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riprodurre	riprodurre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
totalmente	totalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sfruttare	sfruttare	VERB	V	ROOT
commercialmente	commercialmente	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
detenere	detenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuire	distribuire	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
importare	importare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affitto	affitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
leasing	leasing	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
91	91	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nsubj
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografie	topografia	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concetti	concetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
processi	processo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
codificate	codificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incorporati	incorporare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografie	topografia	NOUN	S	obl
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estendono	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riproduzioni	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
compiute	compiere	VERB	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
sperimentale	sperimentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
insegnamento	insegnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concetti	concetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	conj
incluse	incluse	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitati	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	nmod
create	creare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	det
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	nsubj
rispondano	rispondare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proteggibilità	proteggibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
92	92	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Registrazione	registrazione	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
proteggibile	proteggibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mondo	mondo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
precisata	precisare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	acl:relcl
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	ccomp
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
imposte	imporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
bellico	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
straniero	straniero	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	CCONJ	CC	cc
rispondente	rispondente	ADV	B	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I.	I.	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
codificazione	codificazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formato	formare	VERB	V	advcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mondo	mondo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comprensivo	comprensivo	NOUN	S	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
93	93	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
sorgono	sorgere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
date	data	NOUN	S	nmod
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mondo	mondo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
debita	debito	ADJ	S	obl
forma	forma	NOUN	S	compound
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estinguono	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
date	data	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
sfruttata	sfruttare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
commercialmente	commercialmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mondo	mondo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
debita	debito	ADJ	S	obl
forma	forma	NOUN	S	compound
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comprensivo	comprensivo	NOUN	S	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
94	94	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
involucro	involucro	ADJ	A	amod
esterno	esterno	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
recare	recare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
:	:	PUNCT	FC	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obj
T	T	PROPN	SP	nmod
racchiuso	racchiuso	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cerchio	cerchio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sigla	sigla	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
prova	provare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intenzione	intenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportata	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mondo	mondo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutata	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
definitivamente	definitivamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
95	95	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Contraffazione	Contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Costituisce	Costituisce	VERB	V	ROOT
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografie	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
sapere	sapere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
intrapresa	intrapreso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
stipulati	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scorte	scorta	NOUN	S	conj
esistenti	esistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
corrispettivo	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adeguatamente	adeguatamente	ADV	B	advmod
avvisato	avvisare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquirente	acquirente	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riprodotta	riprodurre	VERB	V	ccomp
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
corrispettivo	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ragguagliato	ragguagliare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
96	96	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
diffida	diffida	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
accolta	accolto	ADJ	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
avvengono	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
corrispondere	corrispondere	VERB	V	xcomp
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
registrata	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
avvengono	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
registrata	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eque	eque	ADJ	A	fixed
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
continuare	continuare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sfruttare	sfruttare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
fosse	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrata	registrare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rifiuti	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rilasciare	rilasciare	VERB	V	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incluse	includere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquistato	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
sapere	sapere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tutelato	tutelare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
continuare	continuare	VERB	V	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
saputo	sapere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	conj
valide	valido	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tutelato	tutelare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avente	avere	VERB	V	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquirente	acquirente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
conserva	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comprensivo	comprensivo	NOUN	S	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
97	97	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
promossa	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	obl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
omesso	omesso	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
incerto	incerto	ADJ	A	xcomp
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proteggibilità	proteggibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
trattasi	trattasi	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	mark
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
iniziato	iniziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
biennio	biennio	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
18	18	NUM	N	obl
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
18	18	NUM	N	obl
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
precisata	precisare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
allegati	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consentano	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
VII	VII	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Segreti	Segreti	PROPN	SP	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
98	98	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Costituiscono	Costituiscono	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
aziendali	aziendale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
esperienze	esperienza	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
segrete	segrere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
precisa	preciso	ADJ	A	amod
configurazione	configurazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
combinazione	combinazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
generalmente	generalmente	ADV	B	advmod
note	noto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
facilmente	facilmente	ADV	B	advmod
accessibili	accessibile	ADJ	A	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
segrete	segreto	ADJ	A	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposte	sottoposre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	PRON	DR	nmod
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ritenersi	ritenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
ragionevolmente	ragionevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
mantenerle	mantenere le	VERB	V_PC	advcl
segrete	segrete	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Costituiscono	Costituiscono	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
segreti	segreto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
elaborazione	elaborazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
considerevole	considerevole	ADJ	A	amod
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
chimici	chimico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
farmaceutici	farmaceutico	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	conj
implicanti	implicante	NOUN	S	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
chimiche	chimico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
99	99	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tutela	Tutela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferma	Ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sleale	sleale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	dep
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rivelare	rivelare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
abusivo	abusivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguiti	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
erano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
utilizzava	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivelava	rivelare	VERB	V	conj
illecitamente	illecitamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stoccaggio	stoccaggio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obj
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgeva	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	obj
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
erano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
illecitamente	illecitamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	obl
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	conj
beneficiano	beneficiare	VERB	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	nmod
significativa	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivelati	rivelare	VERB	V	conj
illecitamente	illecitamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	obl
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
prescrivono	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nuove	Nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
100	100	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	dep
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	obj
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
taxon	taxon	NOUN	S	nmod
botanico	botanico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
basso	basso	ADJ	A	amod
conosciuto	conosciuto	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformandosi	conformare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
meno	meno	ADV	B	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
definito	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
risultanti	risultante	VERB	A	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
certo	certo	ADJ	A	amod
genotipo	genotipo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
certa	certo	ADJ	A	amod
combinazione	combinazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
genotipi	genotipa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
distinto	distinto	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	obl
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espressione	espressione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
'	'	DET	E_RD	det:poss


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riprodotto	riprodovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
101	101	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
creato	creare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
scoperto	scoprire	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
messo	mettere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sopraindicata	sopraindicato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commissionato	commissionare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avente	avente	VERB	V	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avente	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
102	102	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Requisiti	Requisiti	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distinta	distintare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omogenea	omogeneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
103	103	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
reputa	reputare	VERB	V	ROOT
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
vegetativa	vegetativo	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
venduto	vendere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
ceduto	cedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	ROOT
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alberi	albero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
viti	vite	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
104	104	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Distinzione	distinzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
reputa	reputare	VERB	V	ROOT
distinta	distintare	VERB	V	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
contraddistingue	contraddistinguere	VERB	V	advcl
nettamente	nettamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
notoriamente	notoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
conosciuta	conoscere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
reputa	reputare	VERB	V	ROOT
notoriamente	notoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
conosciuta	conoscere	VERB	V	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
Paese	Paese	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
detta	dettare	VERB	V	advcl
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
presente	presente	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
collezioni	collezione	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
105	105	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Omogeneità	omogeneità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
reputa	reputare	VERB	V	ROOT
omogenea	omogenea	ADJ	A	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
sufficientemente	sufficientemente	ADV	B	advmod
uniforme	uniforme	ADJ	A	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevedibile	prevedibile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
particolarità	particolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
sessuata	sessuare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
vegetativa	vegetativo	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
106	106	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Stabilità	stabilità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
reputa	reputare	VERB	V	ROOT
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	nsubj
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
rimangono	rimanere	VERB	VA	advcl
invariati	invariare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
riproduzioni	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
moltiplicazioni	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
107	107	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
offerta	offrire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
sopra	sopra	ADV	B	advmod
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
menzionati	menzionato	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	ADJ	A	amod
piante	pianta	NOUN	S	obl
intere	intere	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
piante	pianta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzata	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	ccomp
ragionevolmente	ragionevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
derivate	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
volta	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
derivata	derivato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
distinguono	distinguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nettamente	nettamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
protetta	proteggere	VERB	V	acl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distinzione	distinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
necessita	necessitare	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripetuto	ripetuto	NOUN	S	obl
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
derivata	derivare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definita	definire	VERB	V	acl
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	xcomp
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
prevalentemente	prevalentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
prevalentemente	prevalentemente	ADV	B	advmod
derivata	derivare	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
conservando	conservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
espressioni	espressione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genotipo	genotipo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
combinazione	combinazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genotipi	genotipio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
distingue	distinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
nettamente	nettamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
differenze	differenza	NOUN	S	obj
generate	generare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
derivazione	derivazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
espressione	espressione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genotipo	genotipo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
combinazione	combinazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genotipi	genotipio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
derivate	derivato	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenute	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mutante	mutante	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indotto	indurre	VERB	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
variante	variante	NOUN	S	conj
somaclonale	somaclonale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
variante	variante	NOUN	S	nmod
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
piante	pianta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
retroincroci	retroincroco	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
genetica	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
compreso	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativa	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
equa	equo	ADJ	A	amod
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
108	108	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limitazioni	Limitazioni	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
sperimentale	sperimentale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
creare	creare	VERB	V	acl
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
vista	vista	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
proveniente	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	ADJ	A	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
109	109	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dura	durare	VERB	V	ROOT
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
alberi	albero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
viti	vite	NOUN	V	conj
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
dura	durare	VERB	V	amod
trent'	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
descrittivi	descrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
descrittivi	descrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
110	110	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	acl
autore	autore	NOUN	S	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
incluso	incluso	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
111	111	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
nascenti	nascere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esserne	essere ne	AUX	VA_PC	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
autore	autore	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
alienabili	alienabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmissibili	trasmissibile	NOUN	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
creata	creare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
112	112	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
distinzione	distinzione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
erano	essere	AUX	V	cop
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
soddisfatte	soddisfatto	ADJ	A	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
omogeneità	omogeneità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilità	stabilità	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	V	cop
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
soddisfatte	soddisfatto	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aveva	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avente	avere	VERB	V	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
valso	valso	VERB	V	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
accordategli	accordategli	VERB	V_PC	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
113	113	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decadenza	Decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	ccomp
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
omogeneità	omogeneità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilità	stabilità	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
soddisfatte	soddisfatte	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
messa	messa	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
ritenuti	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pagato	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
114	114	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designata	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	obl
generica	generico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
permettere	permettere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
identificare	identificare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
unicamente	unicamente	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cifre	cifra	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prassi	prassi	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
designare	designare	VERB	V	advcl
talune	taluno	DET	DI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
suscettibile	suscettibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indurre	indurre	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
creare	creare	VERB	V	conj
confusione	confusione	NOUN	S	obj
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
diversa	diverso	PRON	PI	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
designi	designo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
aderente	aderre	VERB	V	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UPOV	UPOV	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	appos
preesistente	preesistente	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
simile	simile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esista	esista	ADJ	V	ccomp
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	conj
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	obj
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pregiudicati	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
registrata	registrare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
aderenti	aderente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UPOV	UPOV	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
designare	designare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
depositata	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrata	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
depositata	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrata	registrare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
aderenti	aderente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
UPOV	UPOV	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
registrata	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
oppongano	oppongare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
associare	associare	VERB	V	csubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
varietale	varietale	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
simile	simile	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
varietale	varietale	ADJ	A	amod
risulti	risulto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facilmente	facilmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconoscibile	riconoscibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
115	115	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Licenze	Licenze	NOUN	SP	nmod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
espropriazioni	espropriazione	NOUN	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
formare	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusive	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incluse	includere	VERB	V	advcl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
ministeriale	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesse	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusive	esclusivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
servire	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
alimentazione	alimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
umana	umano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bestiame	bestiame	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	conj
terapeutici	terapeutico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesse	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
propagazione	propagazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
116	116	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contrastino	contrastare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
TUTELA	TUTELA	PROPN	S	nmod
GIURISDIZIONALE	GIURISDIZIONALE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	conj
DIRITTI	DIRITTI	PROPN	S	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
PROPRIETÀ	PROPRIETÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
INDUSTRIALE	INDUSTRIALE	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
117	117	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Validità	Validità	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudicano	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
circa	circa	ADP	E	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
118	118	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rivendica	Rivendica	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ccomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

assumere	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rivestendo	rivestire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ecceda	eccedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
riferisca	riferire	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
sostanzialmente	sostanzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
identico	identico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risale	risalire	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	advcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
sostanzialmente	sostanzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
identico	identico	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risale	risalire	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avente	avente	VERB	V	obl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
data	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
far	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
aveva	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	PRON	RD	det
avente	avere	VERB	V	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
valso	valso	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dominio	dominio	NOUN	S	nmod
aziendale	aziendale	ADJ	A	amod
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
mala	malo	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
trasferita	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
119	119	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Paternità	Paternità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esattezza	esattezza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dinnanzi	dinnanzi	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	ccomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legittimato	legittimare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esercitarlo	esercitare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Una	uno	DET	RI	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
incompleta	incompleta	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
errata	errato	ADJ	A	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rettificata	rettificare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
designata	designato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
designarlo	designare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
annota	annotare	VERB	V	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
120	120	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Giurisdizione	giurisdizione	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
propongono	proporre	VERB	V	conj
avanti	avanti	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualunque	qualunque	DET	PI	dep
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	advcl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADV	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esaminandola	esaminandola	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	obl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
propongono	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sconosciuti	sconosciere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	conj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotata	annotare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
vale	valere	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giurisdizionali	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
annotarsi	annotare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunali	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
fondate	fondare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lesivi	lesivo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dotata	dotare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	NOUN	E	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzata	specializzare	VERB	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	V	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
negativo	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
121	121	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provare	provare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
incombe	incombere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
impugna	impugnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provare	provare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obj
incombe	incombere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
domandata	domandare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccepita	eccepire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
seri	serio	ADJ	A	amod
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondatezza	fondatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	conj
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
detenuti	detenere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
confermino	confermare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	obj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richieda	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordini	ordine	VERB	A	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
implicati	implicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
scala	scala	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pirateria	pirateria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
bancaria	bancario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
sopra	sopra	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
riservate	riservato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
desume	desumere	VERB	V	ROOT
argomenti	argomento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
danno	danno	VERB	A	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
ingiustificato	ingiustificato	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottemperare	ottemperare	VERB	V	xcomp
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	obl
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
prodotti	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rendendoli	rendendolo	NOUN	S	obj
noti	noto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
121-bis	121-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	CCONJ	CC	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
giustificata	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proporzionata	proporzionato	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reti	rete	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
violano	violano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trovata	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
scala	scala	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sorpresa	sorprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
scala	scala	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sorpresa	sorprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
su	su	ADP	E	case
scala	scala	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
implicata	implicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fabbri	fabbro	NOUN	S	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
cazione	cazione	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
comprendere	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricanti	fabbricante	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distributori	distributore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
detentori	detentore	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
grossisti	grossisto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dettaglianti	dettagliante	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotte	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fabbricate	fabbricare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consegnate	consegnare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricevute	ricevuta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordinate	ordinare	VERB	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
interrogare	interrogare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
ognuna	ognuno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrogata	interrogare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
rivolgere	rivolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
loro	loro	PRON	PE	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
utili	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
chiarire	chiarire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
121-ter	121-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tutela	Tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delegati	delegare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
riservati	riservato	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantiene	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emesso	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
passata	passare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
erano	essere	AUX	V	cop
privi	privo	ADJ	A	ccomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
diventano	diventare	VERB	V	advcl
generalmente	generalmente	ADV	B	advmod
noti	noto	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
facilmente	facilmente	ADV	B	advmod
accessibili	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
regolatori	regolatore	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giusto	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
appaiano	appaiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
ristretto	ristretto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definiscono	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resi	rendere	NOUN	S	acl
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oscuramento	oscuramento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
oscurare	oscurare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omettere	omettere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
apponga	appongere	VERB	V	ccomp
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
diffondere	diffondere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
versione	versione	NOUN	S	obl
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
122	122	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl:agent
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
promossa	promossa	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	advcl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
costituirebbe	costituirebbe	VERB	A	conj
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	conj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritratto	ritratto	NOUN	S	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avente	avere	VERB	V	advcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avente	avente	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avente	avere	VERB	V	advcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
impropria	improprio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Parigi	Parigi	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stoccolma	Stoccolma	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emblemi	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stemmi	stemma	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivestano	rivestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avente	avente	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
titolari	titolare	ADJ	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-quater	184-quater	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
connesso	connesso	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sospendere	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
297	297	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiarano	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotate	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
introduttivo	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
anzidetta	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
122-bis	122-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legittimazione	Legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatte	Fatte	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avviare	avviare	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
avviare	avviare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
siffatta	siffatto	ADJ	A	amod
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
messa	messa	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avvia	avviare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
appropriati	appropriato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
avviata	avviare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
subito	subito	ADV	B	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
123	123	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Efficacia	Efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
erga	Erga	VERB	A	amod
omnes	omnes	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziali	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
124	124	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Misure	misure	NOUN	S	nmod
correttive	correttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accerta	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inibitoria	inibitoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inibitoria	inibitoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
intermediario	intermediario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
violare	violare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Pronunciando	Pronunciando	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inibitoria	inibitoria	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fissare	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	conj
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
constatata	constatare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accerta	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
oppongono	oppongere	VERB	V	advcl
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avente	avere	VERB	V	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
suscettibili	suscettibile	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	obl
modifica	modifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reinserimento	reinserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adeguamenti	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
imposti	imporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accerta	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	amod
importati	importare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
venduti	vendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
univocamente	univocamente	ADJ	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
produrli	produre li	VERB	V_PC	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
tutelato	tutelato	VERB	V	acl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	csubj
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
residua	residuo	NOUN	S	nmod
durata	durata	NOUN	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrati	sequestrato	VERB	V	acl
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verrà	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
occorrendo	occorrendo	VERB	E	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esserne	essere ne	AUX	VA_PC	aux
interdetto	interdempere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
domestico	domestico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
proporzione	proporzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutarne	valutare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
proporzionalità	proporzionalità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proteggere	proteggere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	xcomp
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivelare	rivelare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
legittimi	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
potrebbe	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
legittimi	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativo	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indennizzo	indennizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
istante	istante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosceva	conoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
erano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
stava	stare	AUX	VA	aux
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivelando	rivelare	VERB	V	conj
illecitamente	illecitamente	ADV	B	advmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
eccessivamente	eccessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
onerosa	onerosa	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
istante	istante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indennizzo	indennizzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	conj
adeguato	adeguato	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
subito	subito	ADV	B	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-quater	6-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
indennizzo	indennizzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
liquidato	liquidare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
istante	istante	ADJ	A	amod
avesse	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	NOUN	S	nmod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sorgono	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
menzionate	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
gravame	gravame	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	conj
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
sommarie	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
anzidette	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
125	125	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitti	profitto	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
danneggiato	danneggiato	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidato	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1223	1223	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
1226	1226	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1227	1227	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	nmod
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
negative	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
guadagno	guadagno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
leso	leso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
appropriati	appropriato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
arrecato	arrecare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl
globale	globale	ADJ	A	amod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presunzioni	presunzione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nsubj
cessante	cessante	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canoni	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
avesse	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
leso	leso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
leso	leso	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utili	utile	NOUN	S	nmod
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
cessante	cessante	ADV	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
eccedono	eccedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
126	126	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accerta	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	ccomp
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
sunto	sunto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
dispositiva	dispositivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
giornali	giornale	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soccombente	soccombente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	dep
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ccomp
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutarne	valutare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
proporzionalità	proporzionalità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivelare	rivelare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
tali	tale	PRON	PD	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
giustificata	giustificare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provocare	provocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reputazione	reputazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
127	127	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sanzioni	sanzioni	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salva	salvare	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
474	474	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
517	517	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
fabbrica	fabbrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vende	vendere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espone	espone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adopera	adopera	NOUN	S	conj
industrialmente	industrialmente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
1.032,91	1.032,91	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rifiuti	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
121-bis	121-bis	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
372	372	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotte	ridotta	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
appone	appone	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parole	parola	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
corrispondenti	corrispondere	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vero	vero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tendenti	tendente	NOUN	S	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
credere	credere	VERB	V	ccomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
protetto	protetto	NOUN	S	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	conj
credere	credere	VERB	V	ccomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
contraddistingue	contraddistinguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.500	1.500	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
2.065,83	2.065,83	NUM	N	det
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
illiceità	illiceità	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
sopprima	sopprimare	VERB	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commerciante	commerciante	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
merci	merce	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
128	128	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Consulenza	Consulenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
696-bis	696-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
propongono	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzata	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
129	129	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADJ	B	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuni	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
denunciata	denunciato	ADJ	A	amod
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
entità	entità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
riservate	riservato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assunte	assure	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sommarie	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
prelevamento	prelevamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
ritardi	ritardo	NOUN	S	nsubj
potrebbero	potere	AUX	VM	aux
causare	causare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
irreparabile	irreparabile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nmod
potrebbe	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pregiudicare	pregiudicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
derogate	derogare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modifica	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revoca	revoco	NOUN	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
chieste	chiestere	VERB	V	acl
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valutarne	valutare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
130	130	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
periti	perito	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fotografici	fotografico	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
natura	natura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessati	interessato	NOUN	V	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistiti	assistire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tecnici	tecnico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
675	675	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
completate	completare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
iniziate	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esserne	essere ne	AUX	VA_PC	aux:pass
iniziate	iniziare	VERB	V	conj
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
fondate	fondare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	xcomp
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
concernere	concernere	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
identificati	identificare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
prodotti	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
offerti	offrire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importati	importare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esportati	esportare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
messi	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emessi	emessi	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
131	131	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Inibitoria	inibitoria	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inibitoria	inibitoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
imminente	imminente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proseguimento	proseguimento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripetizione	ripetizione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inibitoria	inibitoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
proprie	proprio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tario	tario	ADJ	A	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inibitoria	inibitoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesti	chierre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
violare	violare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Pronunciando	Pronunciando	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inibitoria	inibitoria	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fissare	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	conj
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
constatata	constatare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
132	132	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Anticipazione	anticipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
126	126	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
128	128	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
129	129	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
131	131	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
133	133	NUM	N	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilasciare	rilasciare	VERB	V	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
iniziare	iniziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iniziato	iniziare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
trentuno	trentuno	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
calendario	calendario	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
rappresentino	rappresentare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chieste	chierre	VERB	V	ROOT
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iniziato	iniziare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
700	700	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
anticipare	anticipare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
iniziare	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ottenimento	ottenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sommarie	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	obj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativo	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
continuare	continuare	VERB	V	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
prestando	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
subiti	subire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	obl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proporzionalità	proporzionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
divengono	divenire	VERB	V	advcl
inefficaci	inefficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
perdono	perdere	VERB	V	conj
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux
successivamente	successivo	ADV	B	advmod
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	conj
illeciti	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussisteva	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
risarcire	risarcire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
adottate	adottato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
133	133	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tutela	Tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dominio	dominio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
inibitoria	inibitoria	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dominio	dominio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
illegittimamente	illegittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
subordinandolo	subordinandolo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
134	134	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Norme	Norme	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
devoluti	devolere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzate	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	conj
sleale	sleale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sole	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
interferiscono	interferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
illeciti	illecito	NOUN	S	amod
afferenti	afferento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
82	82	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
istituisce	istituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	obj
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
impropria	improprio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzate	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
65	65	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
98	98	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
99	99	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
135	135	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
respingono	respingere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
totalmente	totalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rifiutano	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composta	comporre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	xcomp
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	conj
scelti	scelto	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consigliere	consigliere	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistratura	magistratura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
professori	professore	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
articola	articolare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presiedute	presiedute	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
membri	membro	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durano	durare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carica	carica	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggregati	aggregare	VERB	V	ROOT
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	xcomp
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
professori	professore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ordine	Ordine	PROPN	SP	obl
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comprovata	comprovato	ADJ	A	amod
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	obj
come	come	ADP	E	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tecnici	tecnico	NOUN	S	nsubj
aggregati	aggregato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
voto	voto	NOUN	S	ROOT
deliberativo	deliberativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
anzidetta	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnici	tecnico	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
cadere	cadere	VERB	V	ROOT
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
riposo	riposo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	ferma	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistita	assistere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl:agent
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	ROOT
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod

è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quello	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativa	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regolamentare	regolamentare	VERB	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
consultiva	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sedute	seduta	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
consultiva	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
valide	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
presente	presente	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
voto	voto	NOUN	S	obj
deliberativo	deliberativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
tecnici	tecnico	NOUN	S	conj
aggregati	aggregato	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136	136	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controinteressati	controinteressato	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	conj
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
notifiche	notifiche	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
controinteressati	controinteressato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ordinate	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
difensivo	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
valevole	valevola	PROPN	SP	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
equivale	equivalere	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
eletto	eleggere	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indirizzato	indirizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnato	impugnare	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sommaria	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
offerti	offerti	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
valersi	valere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sta	stare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
incerta	incertare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
resistente	resistente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimasta	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
avverso	avverso	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrente	decorrente	ADJ	B	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-bis	136-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	appos
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenute	avvenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
notifiche	notifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
unite	unire	VERB	V	ROOT
tante	tanto	DET	DI	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
quanti	quanto	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
controparti	controparto	NOUN	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	NOUN	A	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
implica	implicare	VERB	V	ROOT
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
citati	citare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
utili	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
confronti	confronto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituendosi	costituere si	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-ter	136-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Formazione	Formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
iscrive	iscrive	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forma	formare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inserendovi	inserire vi	VERB	V_B	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
fascicoli	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
originali	originale	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
fascicoli	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
restituiti	restituire	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	amod
sottopone	sottopone	NOUN	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
appena	appena	ADV	B	advmod
formato	formare	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
imputabili	imputabili	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-quater	136-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esame	esame	PROPN	SP	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
presidenziali	presidenziale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
esamina	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
preliminarmente	preliminarmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	advcl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	obl
innanzi	innanzi	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamante	reclamante	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Scaduti	Scaduti	ADJ	A	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Camera	Camera	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	xcomp
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	NOUN	V_PC	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	obl
connessi	connesso	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
ritarda	ritardare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravosa	gravoso	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disporne	dispore ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
preliminarmente	preliminarmente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj
richieda	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
tecnici	tecnico	NOUN	A	amod
aggregati	aggregato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-quinquies	136-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fase	Fase	NOUN	SP	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
liberi	libero	ADJ	A	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinviata	rinviare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
liberi	libero	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
liberi	libero	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
replica	replica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-sexies	136-sexies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Trattazione	Trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presieduta	presiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
componente	componente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
anziano	anziano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
espone	espone	NOUN	S	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obl
emergono	emergere	AUX	VA	aux
fatti	fare	VERB	V	advcl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
influenti	influente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestati	contestare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
allontanate	allontanare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delibera	deliberare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redavere	VERB	V	ROOT
processo	processo	NOUN	S	xcomp
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segretario	segretario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiarimenti	chiarimente	ADJ	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	acl
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
seduta	seduta	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
sentire	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
chiarimenti	chiarimente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-septies	136-septies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deliberazioni	Deliberazioni	PROPN	SP	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudicante	giudicante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
giusti	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinviata	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazioni	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
277	277	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitive	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitate	limitato	VERB	A	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	DET	DI	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incaricato	incaricare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
redigere	redigere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
esponendo	esponere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
concisa	conciso	ADJ	A	amod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
stanno	stare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
estensore	estensore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
annulla	annu il	ADP	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
conseguenti	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
originale	originale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
segretario	segretario	NOUN	S	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	VM	ROOT
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
apponendo	apporre	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
certificata	certificato	ADJ	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136-terdecies	136-terdecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
327	327	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	A	amod
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
autentiche	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-octies	136-octies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisa	decidere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
stare	stare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	PI	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risolvere	risolvere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotto	interrompere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
venir	venire	VERB	V	parataxis
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
cause	causa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
stare	stare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
legale	legale	NOUN	S	conj
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
radiazione	radiazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Avverso	avverso	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136-quater	136-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
interrotti	interrotte	VERB	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricominciano	ricominciare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessata	cessare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
prosegue	proseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136-quater	136-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
colpita	colpire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
successori	successore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136-quater	136-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
136-novies	136-novies	NUM	N	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rinuncia	rinunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimborsare	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
sottoscritte	sottoscritto	VERB	S	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
procuratori	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
depositano	depositare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	ADJ	A	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riassumere	riassumere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrare	integrare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	ADV	B	iobj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fissarlo	fissare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
inattività	inattività	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
inefficaci	inefficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
compiuti	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sopravvenuta	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
carenza	carenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
agire	agire	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ognuna	ognuno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
presidenziale	presidenziale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
reclamabile	reclamabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136-quater	136-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-decies	136-decies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	procedimento	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	Ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
correggere	correggere	VERB	A	xcomp
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
errori	errore	NOUN	S	conj
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
originale	originale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-undecies	136-undecies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allegando	allegare	VERB	V	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	advcl
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
irreparabile	irreparabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emanazione	emanazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
appaiono	apparire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	xcomp
interinalmente	interinalmente	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
emessa	emettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
estrema	estremo	ADJ	A	amod
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
dilazione	dilazione	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
separata	separato	ADJ	A	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparti	controparto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
provvisorie	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	ROOT
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Collegio	Collegio	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
completezza	completezza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
definire	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modificazione	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
concesse	concere	VERB	V	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproposizione	riproposizione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
respinta	respintare	VERB	V	ROOT
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ammissibili	ammissibile	ADJ	A	ccomp
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
motivate	motivare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
sopravvenuti	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-duodecies	136-duodecies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ottemperanza	Ottemperanza	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ottemperanza	ottemperanza	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
concesse	concere	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottemperato	ottemperare	VERB	V	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	aux
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ottemperanza	ottemperanza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
indicandone	indicandone	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136-terdecies	136-terdecies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Impugnazioni	Impugnazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
137	137	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
formare	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
identificarlo	identificare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestratario	sequestratario	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
frutti	frutto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
frutti	frutto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
maturati	maturare	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
cumulano	cumulare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricavato	ricavato	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardi	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenute	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazioni	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
eletto	eletto	ADJ	A	amod
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
affissa	affisso	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trascritto	trascrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avvenuta	Avvenuta	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finchè	finché	DET	T	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
spiega	spiegare	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
pignoramenti	pignoramente	NOUN	S	nsubj
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
trascritti	trascritto	ADJ	A	nmod
valgono	valere	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificati	notificare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	obl
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
pignorati	pignorato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trascorsi	trascorrere	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvedendo	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annunzio	Annunzio	PROPN	SP	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annunzio	Annunzio	PROPN	SP	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
affisso	affisso	VERB	V	ccomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	Camera	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estremio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
giuste	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
risultanze	risultanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	nsubj
istante	istante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
creditori	creditore	NOUN	S	obl
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trascritti	trascritto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questi	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
creditori	creditore	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocazione	collocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
giustificativi	giustificativo	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	dep
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trascorso	Trascorso	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
proporrà	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
graduazione	graduazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
ricavato	ricavare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
frutti	frutto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accordate	accordare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricavato	ricavato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
frutti	frutto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
graduazione	graduazione	NOUN	S	obl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
creditori	creditore	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ricavato	ricavato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
frutti	frutto	NOUN	S	obl
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
mobiliare	mobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizionati	condizionato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diventano	diventare	VERB	V	ROOT
esigibili	esigibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cancellate	cancellare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositando	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
propongono	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
138	138	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trascrizione	Trascrizione	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Debbono	Debbono	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resi	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	xcomp
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
vivi	vivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
trasferiscono	trasferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
estinguono	estinguere	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	appos
su	su	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	appos
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
vivi	vivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modificano	modificare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasferiscono	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reali	reale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
privilegi	privilegio	NOUN	S	compound
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
anzidetti	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
transazione	transazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
enunciati	enunciare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
pignorati	pignorato	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituiti	restituire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiarano	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	cop
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
trascritti	trascritto	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
pronunciano	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rescissione	rescissione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	A	nmod
trascritto	trascritto	NOUN	S	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotate	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trascritte	trascrittere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giudiziali	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
dirette	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
risalgono	risalgere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	NO	det
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
testamenti	testamento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provano	provare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
successione	successione	NOUN	S	obj
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
l	l	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziali	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
nulli	nullo	ADJ	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziali	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

n	n	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	ROOT
giudiziali	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
dirette	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
risalgono	risalgere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
n	n	X	X	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fallimento	fallimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritto	prescritto	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	xcomp
nota	noto	ADJ	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allegando	allegare	AUX	V	cop
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
196	196	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esaminata	esaminare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
inesattezze	inesattezza	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inducano	inducare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
incertezza	incertezza	NOUN	S	obj
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
trascrivere	trascrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invalidità	invalidità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
139	139	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	Effetti	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
testamenti	testamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	i	X	NO	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l	l	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
138	138	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finchè	finchè	PROPN	V_PC	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
trascritti	trascritto	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
che	che	CCONJ	CC	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquistato	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
conservato	conservare	VERB	V	conj
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
acquirenti	acquirente	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preferito	preferire	VERB	V	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
trascritto	trascrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finchè	finchè	PROPN	SP	nsubj
dura	durare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	parataxis
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
anzidetti	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
vengono	venire	VERB	V	ROOT
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
testamenti	testamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provano	provare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenire	ADJ	A	amod
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
successione	successione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trascritti	trascritto	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
opponibili	opponibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
trasferiscono	trasferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
modificano	modificare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Registro	Registro	PROPN	SP	obl
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trascritti	trascritto	VERB	V	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Registro	Registro	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europei	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
140	140	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
autenticata	autenticato	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soddisfacimento	soddisfacimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
assistiti	assistire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prescritto	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
141	141	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Espropriazione	Espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espropriati	espropriare	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
bisogni	bisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
anzidetta	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riguardi	riguardo	NOUN	S	conj
titoli	titolo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferito	trasferire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
espropriante	espropriante	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
142	142	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessa	interessare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
143	143	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Indennità	Indennità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
espropriato	espropriato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accetti	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	obj
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitratori	arbitratore	NOUN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
provi	provare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
perduto	perdere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
negativa	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
indennizzo	indennizzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Misure	misure	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pirateria	piraterio	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
144	144	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Atti	Atti	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pirateria	pirateria	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pratiche	pratica	ADJ	A	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Italian	Italian	PROPN	SP	nmod
Sounding	Sounding	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
pirateria	pirateria	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
contraffazioni	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
evidenti	evidente	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
registrati	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
realizzate	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
dolosamente	dolosamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
sistematico	sistematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
pratiche	pratica	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
Italian	Italian	PROPN	SP	nmod
Sounding	Sounding	PROPN	SP	flat:name
le	il	DET	RD	det
pratiche	pratica	NOUN	S	nsubj
finalizzate	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
evocazione	evocazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
144-bis	144-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sequestro	sequestro	PROPN	SP	nmod
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
lesa	leso	ADJ	A	amod
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
atte	atto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pregiudicare	pregiudicare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soddisfacimento	soddisfacimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
671	671	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preteso	preteso	ADJ	A	amod
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
blocco	blocco	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
bancari	bancario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presumibile	presumibile	ADJ	A	amod
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
bancaria	bancario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
145	145	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lotta	lotta	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italian	Italian	PROPN	SP	conj
Sounding	Sounding	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lotta	lotta	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italian	Italian	PROPN	SP	conj
Sounding	Sounding	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impulso	impulso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
strategiche	strategico	ADJ	A	amod
intraprese	intraprendere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
migliorare	migliorare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
evocazione	evocazione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lotta	lotta	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italian	Italian	PROPN	SP	conj
Sounding	Sounding	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presieduto	presiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
sinergie	sinergia	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composto	comporre	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANCI	ANCI	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
invitare	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
temi	tema	NOUN	S	nmod
trattati	trattato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lotta	lotta	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italian	Italian	PROPN	SP	conj
Sounding	Sounding	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	conj
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lotta	lotta	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	compound
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lotta	lotta	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italian	Italian	PROPN	SP	conj
Sounding	Sounding	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emolumenti	emolumente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
umane	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziarie	finanziaria	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	conj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
146	146	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Interventi	Interventi	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pirateria	pirateria	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
segnala	segnalare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Procura	Procura	PROPN	SP	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pirateria	pirateria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
repressione	repressione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Prefetto	prefetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
sindaci	sindaco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merce	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatta	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conservare	conservare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzata	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pirateria	pirateria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
avverso	avverso	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
specializzata	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
23	23	NUM	N	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	flat
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
689	689	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ACQUISTO	ACQUISTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
MANTENIMENTO	MANTENIMENTO	PROPN	SP	conj
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DIRITTI	DIRITTI	PROPN	S	appos
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
PROPRIETÀ	PROPRIETÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
INDUSTRIALE	INDUSTRIALE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
RELATIVE	RELATIVE	PROPN	SP	conj
PROCEDURE	PROCEDURE	PROPN	SP	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
I	I	DET	NO	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domande	domande	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
147	147	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
ricorsi	ricorso	NOUN	V_PC	conj
notificati	notificare	VERB	V	acl
menzionati	menzionare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
Camere	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	S	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quivi	quivo	NOUN	S	nmod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	B	amod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
anzidetti	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciano	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conservano	conservare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
originali	originale	ADJ	A	amod
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sole	solo	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
originali	originale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	PD	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
abilitati	abilitare	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
telematico	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utente	utente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
apporre	apporre	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
divenire	divenire	VERB	V	conj
cessionari	cessionario	NOUN	S	obj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	obj
addetti	addetto	NOUN	S	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cessato	cessare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
appartenere	appartenere	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Spazio	Spazio	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ricevervi	ricevere vi	VERB	V_PC	advcl
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalga	avvalgare	VERB	V	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
mandatari	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
analogo	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
basato	basato	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
certifichino	certifichare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantendo	garantere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
analoghi	analogo	NOUN	S	obl
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	compound
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
omessa	omettere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
analoga	analoga	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
manchi	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
affissione	affissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affissione	affissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
148	148	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ricevibilità	ricevibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ricevibili	ricevibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
identificabile	identificabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
raggiungibile	raggiungibile	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
irricevibilità	irricevibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
tardivo	tardivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
constata	constare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegato	allegare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilato	assimilare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
manchi	manco	ADJ	A	conj
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
richiamato	richiamare	VERB	V	acl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
contiene	contenere	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegato	allegare	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esemplare	esemplare	NOUN	A	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esemplare	esemplare	ADJ	A	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fotografie	fotografia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
richiamate	richiamare	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obj
grafica	grafico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fotografica	fotografico	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegato	allegare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnati	consegnare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comprovanti	comprovantare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritti	prescritto	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	conj
bis	bis	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ottempera	ottempero	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
spontaneamente	spontaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
valere	valere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ottempera	ottempero	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
mancanti	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irricevibilità	irricevibilità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
prescritto	prescritto	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	parataxis
quple	quple	DET	DD	amod
data	dare	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
improrogabilmente	improrogabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
valida	valido	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
allegati	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatti	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Degli	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
italiana	italiano	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
originale	originale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riferimenti	riferimento	NOUN	S	conj
prodotti	produrre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
149	149	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
198	198	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riassunto	riassunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisca	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
esauriente	esauriente	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediato	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
150	150	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trasmissione	Trasmissione	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
suscettibile	suscettibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
vincolato	vincolare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesse	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
settimane	settimana	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ritirate	ritirare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatte	Fatte	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessanti	interessante	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	xcomp
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
trascorsi	trascorrere	VERB	V	advcl
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allegando	allegare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istante	istante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
151	151	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Deposito	deposito	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridica	NOUN	S	conj
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
agisce	agire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevente	ricevente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevente	ricevente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
151	151	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
quale	quale	ADP	DQ	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevente	ricevente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
198	198	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
152	152	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Requisiti	Requisiti	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
198	198	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riassunto	riassunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisca	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
esauriente	esauriente	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
allegati	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
comprovanti	comprovantare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
copie	copia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
mancanti	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
approntate	approntare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
153	153	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pervenuta	pervenere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dare	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rivelando	rivelare	VERB	V	advcl
unicamente	unico	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
154	154	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trasmissione	Trasmissione	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
trasmette	trasmettere	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux
incaricata	incaricare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regole	regola	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
23	23	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esemplare	esemplare	ADJ	A	amod
originale	originale	ADJ	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pervenuta	pervenere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diffidandolo	diffidandolo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	parataxis
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
155	155	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	Deposito	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridica	NOUN	S	conj
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Atto	Atto	PROPN	SP	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Aja	Aja	PROPN	SP	nmod
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
2	2	NUM	N	obl
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominato	denominare	VERB	V	advcl
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accordo	accordo	NOUN	SP	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1999	1999	NUM	N	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inviata	inviare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
plico	plico	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandato	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quella	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafi	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1999	1999	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1999	1999	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
vale	valere	VERB	V	advmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanate	emanare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatta	redatta	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
francese	francese	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inglese	inglese	ADJ	A	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
formulari	formulario	NOUN	S	obl
predisposti	predisporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
designante	designante	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1999	1999	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
156	156	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
169	169	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentazione	rappresentazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	CS	nsubj
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
contraddistinguere	contraddistinguere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
raggruppati	raggruppare	VERB	V	advcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
classi	classe	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Nizza	Nizza	PROPN	SP	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1977	1977	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
243	243	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
identificati	identificare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
chiarezza	chiarezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
precisione	precisione	NOUN	S	conj
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesto	ADJ	A	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mandatario	mandatario	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
unito	unire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
157	157	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
allegata	allegare	VERB	A	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
156	156	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11-bis	11-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
legittimati	legittimato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rappresentare	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentazione	rappresentazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
legittimati	legittimato	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
usare	usare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
infrazioni	infrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprese	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
limitazioni	limitazione	NOUN	S	conj
introdotte	introdovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specialità	specialità	NOUN	S	conj
tradizionali	tradizionale	ADJ	A	amod
garantite	garantito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
menzioni	menzione	NOUN	S	conj
tradizionali	tradizionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
vini	vine	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	DET	NO	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
diventare	diventare	VERB	V	acl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	xcomp
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	A	nummod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
attestante	attestante	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	ccomp
soddisfa	soddisfa	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentazione	rappresentazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
certificate	certificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
legittimate	legittimare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
usare	usare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
158	158	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
aver	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	DET	DI	det
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
inviterà	invitere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnandogli	assegnandoe lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimanenti	rimanento	ADJ	A	amod
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrettante	altrettante	ADV	B	advmod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avranno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
primitiva	primitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
divisa	dividere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
parziali	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ripartiti	ripartire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

durante	durante	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
parziali	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
conservano	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	nummod
Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	acl
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
159	159	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mandatario	mandatario	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
unito	unire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	A	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40/94	40/94	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	A	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-quinquies	9-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	obl
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
169	169	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
pagate	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	det:poss
trattasi	trattasi	SYM	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
160	160	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	appos
ne	ne	PRON	PC	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
esprima	esprima	ADJ	A	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
brevemente	brevemente	ADV	B	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
precisione	precisione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Una	uno	DET	RI	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
uniti	Uniti	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mandatario	mandatario	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
iniziare	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riassunto	riassunto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
seguita	seguire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	NOUN	NO	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accluse	accluse	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuta	riconosciere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
160-bis	160-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedura	Procedura	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
pubblicata	pubblicato	VERB	V	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
A	A	ADP	E	nmod
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
attuativi	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevibilità	ricevibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
traduzioni	traduzione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesti	richierre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
basata	basare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
anteriorità	anteriorità	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	ferma	VERB	V	xcomp
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
161	161	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Unicità	Unicità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	DET	DI	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
inviterà	invitere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnandogli	assegnandoe lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	xcomp
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
rimanenti	rimanenti	ADJ	A	amod
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrettante	altrettante	ADV	B	advmod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avranno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
primitiva	primitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	E_RD	punct
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
quest'	quest'	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	acl
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
162	162	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	Deposito	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
descritto	descrivere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attuare	attuare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
implica	implicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuto	riconoscere	ADJ	V	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Budapest	Budapest	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1977	1977	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1985	1985	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
610	610	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
microrganismi	microrganismo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominato	denominare	VERB	V	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
Trattato	trattato	PROPN	SP	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Budapest	Budapest	PROPN	SP	nmod
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
depositante	depositare	VERB	V	nsubj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
precisati	precisare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
anticipata	anticipato	ADJ	A	amod
accessibilità	accessibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
notifica	notifico	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
depositato	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
garantito	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
campione	campione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositante	depositare	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
campione	campione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	obl
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accessibilità	accessibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	det
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
depositato	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
derivati	derivare	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
depositato	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
derivati	derivare	VERB	V	acl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
sperimentali	sperimentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rinunci	rinunci	VERB	V	ccomp
esplicitamente	esplicitamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	nsubj
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
solidalmente	solidalmente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
abusi	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuto	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
Budapest	Budapest	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accompagnato	accompagnare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
firmata	firmare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositante	depositante	VERB	V	obl:agent
attestante	attestante	ADV	B	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
identico	identico	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	DET	DD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
163	163	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
complementare	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
fitosanitari	fitosanitario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
data	dare	VERB	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
data	dato	ADJ	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	amod
transitorio	transitorio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
unificato	unificato	ADJ	A	acl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
complementare	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
basato	basato	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
164	164	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
privativa	privativa	ADJ	A	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
privativa	privativa	ADJ	A	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
italiano	italiano	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
latino	latino	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
la	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
proposta	proposta	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specificando	specificira	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fantasia	fantasia	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
allegati	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
uniti	Uniti	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
ibrida	ibrido	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
genealogici	genealogice	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ricevente	ricevente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
fotografica	fotografico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
utile	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esami	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
coltura	coltura	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
intrapresi	intraprendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
redatta	redaggere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
comprovanti	comprovare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	obj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
rivendicate	rivendicare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	advcl
mandatario	mandatario	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coltivazione	coltivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
descritta	descriggere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	acl
chiaramente	chiaramente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
evidenza	evidenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuta	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quali	quale	PRON	PR	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
i	il	DET	RD	det
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
morfologica	morfologico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fisiologica	fisiologico	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	lo	PRON	PC	obj
differenziano	differenziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
similari	similare	ADJ	A	amod
conosciute	conosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
essenzialmente	essenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
derivata	derivato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
geneticamente	geneticamente	ADV	B	advmod
modificata	modificato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
origine	origine	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
genetica	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
165	165	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obj
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetta	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
occorrenti	occorrere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
s'	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	parataxis
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sigla	sigla	NOUN	S	obl
MIPAF	MIPAF	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
vegetativa	vegetativo	NOUN	S	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
domanda	domandare	VERB	V	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
identico	identico	ADJ	A	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
166	166	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
varietale	varietale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
contraria	contraria	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	obj
geografici	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
167	167	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rivendicare	rivendicare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
uniti	Uniti	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
grafica	grafico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	conj
grafica	grafico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
formare	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
campione	campione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
fondamentalmente	fondamentalmente	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
sole	solo	ADJ	A	amod
dimensioni	dimensione	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intelligenza	intelligenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	advcl
mandatario	mandatario	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
168	168	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografie	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
indichi	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corrispondere	corrispondere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	obl
esistente	esistere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
detta	detto	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegati	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
attestante	attestante	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sfruttamento	sfruttamento	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
intercorso	intercorso	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autori	autore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
divenuti	divenuto	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
169	169	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rivendichi	rivendicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
unire	unire	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
prioritaria	prioritario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rilevino	rilevare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
univoco	univoco	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
identificativo	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dare	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
successore	successore	NOUN	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avente	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
depositante	depositante	VERB	V	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	amod
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
196	196	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
separate	separare	VERB	V	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
date	dare	NOUN	S	advcl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
varie	vario	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
voglia	voglia	AUX	VM	aux
rivendicare	rivendicare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ognuna	ognuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
costituiscano	costituiscare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
depositarsi	depositare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
separata	separare	VERB	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivendicate	rivendicare	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	DET	DI	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dette	detto	ADJ	S	amod
diverse	diverso	DET	DI	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	dep
separate	separato	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
158	158	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
separate	separare	VERB	V	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
date	dare	NOUN	S	advcl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
varie	vario	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivendicato	rivendicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivendicati	rivendicare	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
riscontri	riscontrare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
inventiva	inventivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
separate	separato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuto	intervenere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ministeriale	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
apposti	apporre	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
figurato	figurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rivendichino	rivendichare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
allegare	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
direttivo	direttivo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidenza	presidenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avente	avere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
prescritto	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
rivendicata	rivendicato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
correggere	correggere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
modifichi	modificare	VERB	A	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
rivendicata	rivendicato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	obl
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anziché	anziché	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	PD	obl
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
detta	detto	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	amod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	V	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotti	prodotre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
dovute	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
sedici	sedici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rivendica	rivendicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuta	compiere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
rifiutata	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
analoga	analogare	ADJ	A	amod
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutata	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutata	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
se	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativo	NOUN	A	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
170	170	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esame	Esame	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivolto	rivolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
trovare	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
11-bis	11-bis	PUNCT	SP	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parola	parola	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
figura	figurare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segno	segno	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
10	10	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
13	13	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14	14	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	NOUN	S	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	X	X	obl:agent
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	amod
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
quater	quater	PROPN	SP	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	X	PC	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
quinquies	quinquies	X	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	NOUN	S	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	CS	nsubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
50	50	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
51	51	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
82	82	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inclusi	includere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
48	48	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
49	49	NUM	N	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alternativa	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anteriorità	anteriorità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
evidente	evidente	ADJ	A	xcomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
allegazioni	allegazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
certa	certo	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stregua	stregua	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notorio	notorio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
33-bis	33-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	conj
alimentare	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
formula	formulare	VERB	V	advcl
parere	parere	VERB	V	xcomp
vincolante	vincolante	ADJ	A	advmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	conj
alimentare	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
topografie	topografia	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	CS	nsubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsto	prevedere	NOUN	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
disciplinare	disciplinare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
ministeriale	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
agroalimentari	agroalimentario	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esemplare	esemplare	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	conj
alimentare	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
vincolante	vincolare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	conj
alimentare	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
vincolante	vincolare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	acl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parola	parola	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
figura	figura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
come	come	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
usurpazione	usurpazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imitazione	imitazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
evocazione	evocazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivolto	rivolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
trovare	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
11-bis	11-bis	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
acquistano	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
esamina	esamino	NOUN	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
risulti	risultare	NOUN	V	nsubj
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
riscontrino	riscontrare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sopra	sopra	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vincolante	vincolare	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	conj
alimentare	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
invia	inviare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredato	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sperimentazioni	sperimentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metodologie	metodologia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	conj
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	conj
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-sexies	3-sexies	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-septies	3-septies	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-octies	3-octies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-nonies	3-nonies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
170-bis	170-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Adempimenti	Adempimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
biotecnologiche	biotecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevettabilità	brevettabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
biotecnologiche	biotecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
81-quinquies	81-quinquies	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
biosicurezza	biosicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
biotecnologie	biotecnologia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
animale	animale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sta	stare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consentendo	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
isolato	isolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	conj
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
umana	umano	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espresso	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
libero	libero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informato	informato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prelevato	prelevare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	conj
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	amod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
microrganismi	microrganismi	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
geneticamente	geneticamente	ADV	B	advmod
modificati	modificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
garantisca	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normative	normativa	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativi	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
224	224	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
biotecnologiche	biotecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agricoltore	agricoltore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
brevettato	brevettato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2100/94	2100/94	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
27	27	NUM	N	obl
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
98/44	98/44	NUM	PI	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riguardante	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bestiame	bestiama	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
allevamento	allevamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
animale	animale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bestiame	Bestiame	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nsubj
dotati	dotare	VERB	V	ccomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
diretta	diretto	VERB	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allevatore	allevatore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
rientranti	rientrare	VERB	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
rilevi	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettabilità	brevettabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
biotecnologica	biotecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscontrata	riscontrato	ADJ	A	amod
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettabilità	brevettabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
81-quater	81-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
81-quinquies	81-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
170-ter	170-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sanzioni	Sanzioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
brevettare	brevettare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	conj
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	amod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
umana	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendo	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prelevato	prelevare	VERB	V	acl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
punito	punire	VERB	A	parataxis
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.000.000	1.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170-bis	170-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	advcl
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
animale	animale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	amod
materiale	materiale	ADJ	S	amod
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
microrganismi	microrganismi	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
geneticamente	geneticamente	ADV	B	advmod
modificati	modificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contrariamente	contrariamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vero	vero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
massimi	massimo	ADJ	A	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
689	689	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
potenzialità	potenzialità	NOUN	S	obl
lesiva	lesivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
protetto	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
astratto	astratto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	obl
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
recare	recare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
agisce	agiscere	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
171	171	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
designanti	designare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obj
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stoccolma	Stoccolma	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
169	169	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
basate	basare	VERB	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	NOUN	SP	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
basate	basato	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
Protocollo	Protocollo	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
date	dare	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
citate	citata	NOUN	S	obl
Convenzioni	Convenzioni	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	nmod
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obj
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	nmod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	csubj
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritto	prescritto	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presenti	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
richieda	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
prescritte	prescritto	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
emette	emettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obj
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
definitive	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
designanti	designare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
designante	designante	VERB	V	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
radiato	radiare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	obl
riconosciuta	riconosciuta	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
radiazione	radiazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riguardare	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	dep
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
172	172	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ritiro	Ritiro	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rettifiche	rettifica	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ritirare	ritirare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deciso	decidere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interposto	interposto	VERB	V	conj
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
correggere	correggere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sostanziali	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
integrare	integrare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
esempi	esempio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
precisare	precisare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
completare	completare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rettificare	rettificare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intelligenza	intelligenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
meglio	meglio	ADV	B	advmod
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesto	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
moltiplicazione	moltiplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
ibride	ibrido	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
genealogici	genealogice	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciano	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
loro	loro	PRON	AP	amod
consegnato	consegnare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnato	consegnare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
insufficiente	insufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualitativamente	qualitativamente	ADJ	B	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
anzidetti	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
redigono	redige	AUX	VA	ROOT
apposito	apposire	VERB	V	xcomp
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ccomp
visite	visita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
campi	campo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	advcl
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	ccomp
visione	visione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	NOUN	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritengano	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invitano	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
visitare	visitare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
campi	campo	NOUN	S	obj
prova	prova	VERB	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
designato	designare	ADJ	A	amod
trasmette	trasmette	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dubbi	dubbio	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ripetizione	ripetizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redige	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmette	trasmette	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnandogli	assegnandoe lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
conservare	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
opportuna	opportuno	NOUN	S	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
173	173	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rilievi	Rilievi	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
dia	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
dia	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguardi	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
includente	includente	ADV	B	advmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
reciprocamente	reciprocamente	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	conj
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	conj
ricevute	ricevuto	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
connesse	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pervenuta	pervenere	VERB	V	advcl
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinta	respingere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	nsubj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutata	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
varietali	varietale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dipesa	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsato	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avviati	avviare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
respingere	respingere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	dep
connessa	connessere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
formulare	formulare	VERB	V	advcl
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Scaduto	Scaduto	NOUN	A	amod
detto	dire	VERB	V	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obl
accogliere	accogliere	VERB	V	xcomp
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
presentate	presentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinta	respingere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invita	invitare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
correzioni	correzione	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esemplare	esemplare	ADJ	A	amod
originale	originale	ADJ	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
s'	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ccomp
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	xcomp
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accolto	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
fascicoli	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
raccolte	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
raccolte	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conservati	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
distruggere	distruggere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
fascicoli	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Archivio	Archivio	PROPN	SP	nmod
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
alterabili	alterabile	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
contenuti	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Osservazioni	Osservazioni	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
174	174	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Osservazioni	Osservazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
ritenute	ritenuto	ADJ	A	amod
registrabili	registrabile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
179	179	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designanti	designante	NOUN	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
175	175	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indirizzare	indirizzare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
scritte	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specificando	specificira	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
comunicate	comunicato	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
176	176	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
legittimati	legittimare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	amod
avverso	avverso	ADP	V	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scritta	scritto	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentata	documentare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
registrabile	registrabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
registrabile	registrabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	PR	nsubj:pass
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
179	179	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazette	Gazette	PROPN	SP	obl
de	de	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Organisation	Organisation	PROPN	SP	nmod
Mondiale	Mondiale	ADJ	SP	flat:name
de	de	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Proprietè	Proprietè	PROPN	SP	nmod
Intellectuelle	Intellectuelle	PROPN	SP	flat:name
des	des	ADP	E	case
Marques	Marques	PROPN	SP	nmod
Internationales	Internationales	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riguardare	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ricevibile	ricevibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
redatta	redattare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opponente	opponente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
formulata	formulare	VERB	V	advcl
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comprovato	comprovare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
226	226	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ccomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
preesistenza	preesistenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
beneficia	beneficiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preesistenza	preesistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivendicata	rivendicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
addotti	addotto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Registro	registro	NOUN	SP	obl
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	ADP	E	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impedimenti	impedimento	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	appos


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c)-bis	c)-bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aventi	avere	VERB	V	nmod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
177	177	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Legittimazione	Legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legittimati	legittimare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avente	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valida	valido	ADJ	A	amod
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
preesistenza	preesistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
d	d	ADP	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
legittimati	legittimato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
526	526	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
238	238	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	conj
alimentare	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vini	vine	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vini	vine	NOUN	S	conj
aromatizzati	aromatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
spiritose	spiritoso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
178	178	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificate	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricevibilità	ricevibilità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissibilità	ammissibilità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
176	176	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ricorra	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	X	X	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
renda	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opponente	opponente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
detta	dire	VERB	V	acl
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
raggiungere	raggiungere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prorogabili	prorogabile	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	conj
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invitare	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prorogabile	prorogabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegazioni	allegazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opponente	opponente	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fondi	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provare	provare	VERB	V	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
opposto	opposto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
legittimi	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
respinta	respinto	ADJ	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
provato	provare	VERB	V	advcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esso	esso	PRON	PE	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	xcomp
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2017/1001	2017/1001	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riunite	riunire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
respingendo	respingere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
totalità	totalità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
emette	emette	ADJ	A	amod
rifiuto	rifiuto	VERB	V	acl
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
totale	totale	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	obl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	compound
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
OMPI	OMPI	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	NOUN	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidate	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
179	179	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Estensione	Estensione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
estendere	estendere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stoccolma	Stoccolma	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
424	424	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esige	esigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proposta	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
annotazioni	annotazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
termine	termine	NOUN	S	advcl
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
radiazione	radiazione	NOUN	S	obj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
180	180	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
pervenire	pervenire	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduti	scadure	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
avverso	avversare	VERB	V	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
conclusi	concludere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
avverso	avverso	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	ADP	X	obl
-	-	NOUN	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
laddove	laddove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	VERB	S	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	V	acl
apposita	apposire	ADJ	A	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Codice	Codice	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
diviene	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivo	ADV	B	advmod
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b),c),d	b),c),d	X	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
esamina	esamino	NOUN	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
181	181	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Estinzione	Estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decaduto	decadere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigettata	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	proteggere	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	proteggere	ADJ	A	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cancellata	cancellare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
raggiunto	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigettata	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	conj
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legittimato	legittimare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	obl
bis	bis	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	conj
cancellando	cancellare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
venuto	venire	VERB	V	advcl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
agire	agire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
182	182	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ricorso	Ricorso	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
irricevibile	irricevibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
estinta	estintare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
accoglie	accoglia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
183	183	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nomina	nominare	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esaminatori	esaminatore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
carriera	carriera	NOUN	S	obl
direttiva	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirigenziale	dirigenziale	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
laurea	laurea	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giurisprudenza	giurisprudenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esaminatori	esaminatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	obl
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esaminatore	esaminatore	NOUN	S	nmod
giudicante	giudicante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
retribuita	retribuire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
stabilirsi	stabilire si	VERB	V_PC	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riservata	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
frequentato	frequentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apposito	apposire	VERB	V	acl
corso	correre	VERB	V	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
organizzarsi	organizzare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
inadeguato	inadeguare	ADJ	A	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
depositate	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
scelti	scelto	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
notoria	notorio	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184	184	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Entrata	Entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
entrano	entrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II-Bis	II-Bis	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decadenza	Decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
registrati	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	advcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
proponibilità	proponibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
legittimati	legittimato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-ter	184-ter	NUM	N	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
14	14	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
13	13	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
14	14	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	X	X	discourse
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	PC	amod
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
quater	quater	PROPN	SP	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	X	X	nmod
-	-	X	S	punct
quinquies	quinquies	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riguardare	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ricevibile	ricevibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
redatta	redattare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
requisito	requisire	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	obl
attiva	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-ter	184-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	conj
tradizionale	tradizionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specialità	specialità	NOUN	S	conj
tradizionale	tradizionale	ADJ	A	amod
garantita	garantito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	acl
data	dare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	xcomp
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comprovato	comprovare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
226	226	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegati	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
addotti	addotto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
volta	volgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	B	conj
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	nsubj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	B	conj
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
preliminarmente	preliminarmente	ADV	B	advmod
domandato	domandare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
far	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
adita	adire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
connesso	connesso	VERB	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definito	definire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
inoppugnabile	inoppugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
giudicata	giudicato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
sospeso	sospeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inoppugnabilità	inoppugnabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
adita	adire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184-ter	184-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Legittimazione	Legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
legittimati	legittimare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184-quater	184-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esame	Esame	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificate	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricevibilità	ricevibilità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissibilità	ammissibilità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
detta	dire	VERB	V	advcl
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
raggiungere	raggiungere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prorogabili	prorogabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	det
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riunite	riunire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accerta	accerto	ADJ	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
OMPI	OMPI	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	NOUN	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
liquida	liquidare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obj
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accertano	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarano	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasferiscono	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184-quinquies	184-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prova	Prova	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
basata	basare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
legittimi	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fosse	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conclusa	concludere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
doveva	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sussistevano	sussistevare	VERB	V	conj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
legittimi	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
respinta	respingere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usato	usare	VERB	V	advcl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	xcomp
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	ADV	A	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-quater	184-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
184-sexies	184-sexies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Efficacia	Efficacia	PROPN	SP	nmod
erga	erga	ADJ	A	amod
omnes	omnes	PROPN	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
divenuto	divenire	VERB	V	acl
inoppugnabile	inoppugnabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
maturata	maturare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
fin	fino	ADP	E	case
dalla	da il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184-septies	184-septies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
su	su	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
inoppugnabile	inoppugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduti	scadure	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
avverso	avversare	VERB	V	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
conclusi	concludere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	CC	cop
inoppugnabile	inoppugnabile	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	proteggere	ADJ	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
diviene	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inoppugnabile	inoppugnabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
sospeso	sospeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inoppugnabilità	inoppugnabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
esamina	esamino	NOUN	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
basa	basare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184-octies	184-octies	NUM	N	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decaduto	decadere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
inoppugnabile	inoppugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potrebbero	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinunciata	rinunciata	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigettata	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
inoppugnabile	inoppugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
controversi	controvere si	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
184-septies	184-septies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ritirata	ritirare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigettata	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
protetta	proteggere	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	proteggere	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
specialità	specialità	NOUN	S	conj
tradizionale	tradizionale	ADJ	A	amod
garantita	garantito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cancellata	cancellare	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
venuto	venire	VERB	V	advcl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
agire	agire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184-novies	184-novies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
entrata	entrare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
entrano	entrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184-decies	184-decies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ricorso	Ricorso	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
irricevibile	irricevibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
estinta	estintare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
accoglie	accoglia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Pubblicità	Pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
185	185	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
originali	originale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
firmati	firmare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
funzionario	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contrassegnati	contrassegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seconda	seconda	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
progressivo	progressivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	conj
:))	:))	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
riuniti	riunire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
raccolte	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tutti	Tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
riferimenti	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originali	originale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
cartacea	cartacea	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
riuniti	riunire	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolte	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privative	privativa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
MIPAF	MIPAF	PROPN	SP	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
185-bis	185-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Registro	registro	PROPN	SP	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
storici	storico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nsubj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
storici	storico	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
11-ter	11-ter	PROPN	SP	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
storici	storico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenziatario	licenziatario	NOUN	S	conj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
186	186	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visioni	Visioni	PROPN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblicazioni	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consultate	consultare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dietro	dietro	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermi	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accessibilità	accessibilità	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
gratuita	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consultati	consultare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
fascicoli	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
limitazioni	limitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estragga	estragga	VERB	V	ccomp
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizioni	descrizione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
visione	visione	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	DET	DD	det
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
guasto	guasto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deterioramento	deterioramento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esemplare	esemplare	ADJ	A	nmod
messo	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copiatura	copiatura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fotografica	fotografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
anzidetti	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
provveda	provvedere	VERB	V	ccomp
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
estrarsi	estrare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
duplicati	duplicato	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatti	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autenticità	autenticità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
corrispondersi	corrispondere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tavola	tavola	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copiatura	copiatura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
fotografica	fotografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	parataxis
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distinti	distinti	VERB	V_PC	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
classi	classe	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
avvenute	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
mensilmente	mensilmente	ADJ	A	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
188	188	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
189	189	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
190	190	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
conterrà	conterre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nsubj
potrà	potere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
indici	indice	NOUN	S	obj
analitici	analitice	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
indici	indice	NOUN	S	conj
alfabetici	alfabetico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pure	pure	ADV	B	advmod
pubblicarsi	pubblicarre si	VERB	V_PC	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
riassunti	riassunto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizioni	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
distribuito	distribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
gratuitamente	gratuitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camere	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
compilarsi	compilare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
187	187	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicarsi	pubblicare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
ritenute	ritenuto	ADJ	A	amod
registrabili	registrabile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	ROOT
conseguenti	conseguente	VERB	V	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitario	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
accompagnate	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
179	179	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rinnovazioni	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	conj
avvenute	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	X	X	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	ROOT
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
rifiutate	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	X	X	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	dep
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
quater	quater	PROPN	SP	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
avvenute	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
date	dare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
156	156	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredato	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
indici	indice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
analitici	analitice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
alfabetici	alfabetico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numerici	numerico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
classi	classe	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
188	188	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UPOV	UPOV	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
testo	testo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
edito	edire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
frequenza	frequenza	NOUN	S	obj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
privative	privativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicante	indicante	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
persona	personare	VERB	V	advcl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
proposta	proporre	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	conj
succinta	succinto	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obl
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privative	privativa	NOUN	S	nmod
concesse	concesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicante	indicante	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	nmod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
varietale	varietale	ADJ	A	amod
definitivamente	definitivamente	ADV	B	advmod
attribuita	attribuito	VERB	V	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cuiall'	cuiallo	DET	E_RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inviato	inviare	VERB	V	ROOT
gratuitamente	gratuito	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Union	Union	PROPN	SP	nmod
pour	pour	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protection	protection	NOUN	S	nmod
des	des	ADP	E	case
obtentions	obtentions	X	SW	nmod
vegetales	Vegetales	X	S	flat:foreign
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
U.P.O.V.	U.P.O.V.	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
189	189	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicarsi	pubblicare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accessibilità	accessibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
concessi	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
decaduti	decadere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
offerti	offrire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
138	138	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	conj
avvenute	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
-	-	X	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	ROOT
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
date	dare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
167	167	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredato	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
indici	indice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
analitici	analitice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
alfabetici	alfabetico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numerici	numerico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
classi	classe	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
190	190	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
fitosanitari	fitosanitario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
fitosanitari	fitosanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicarsi	pubblicare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
CEE	CEE	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
1768/92	1768/92	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1610/96	1610/96	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
191	191	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
prorogabili	prorogabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
improrogabile	improrogabile	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salva	salva	ADJ	A	amod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	DI	det
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
192	192	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Continuazione	Continuazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
osservato	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ripresa	riprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osservato	osservare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
191	191	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	cc
omesso	omessiro	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
scaduto	scadere	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comprovato	comprovare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	case
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl:agent
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reintegrazione	reintegrazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
193	193	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
inglese	inglese	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anteriorità	anteriorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
153	153	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
193	193	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Reintegrazione	reintegrazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
avendo	avere	AUX	VA	aux
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
diligenza	diligenza	NOUN	S	obj
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	S	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reintegrato	reintegrare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osservato	osservare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
omesso	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
irricevibilità	irricevibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
reintegrazione	reintegrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustificazioni	giustificazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
allegata	allegato	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detto	dire	VERB	V	acl
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
allegarsi	allegare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
comprovante	comprovante	ADJ	A	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuto	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprensivo	comprensivo	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
argomentazioni	argomentazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
divisionale	divisionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	VERB	S	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
avendo	avere	AUX	VA	aux
usato	usare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
diligenza	diligenza	NOUN	S	obj
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	S	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reintegrato	reintegrare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivendicata	rivendicare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
preparativi	preparativo	NOUN	S	obj
seri	serio	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
iniziato	iniziare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
compreso	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esclusiva	esclusiva	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
acquistarla	acquistare la	VERB	V_PC	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reintegrazione	reintegrazione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modello	modello	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	obj
vegetale	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attuarli	attuare li	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preuso	preuso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparativi	preparativo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	csubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reintegrato	reintegrare	VERB	V	ccomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
sostenute	sostenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PROCEDURE	PROCEDURE	PROPN	SP	nmod
SPECIALI	sPECIALI	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
194	194	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	VERB	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Avvenuta	Avvenuta	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formato	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
espropriante	espropriante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senz'	senza	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvalersene	avvalere se ne	VERB	V_PC_PC	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
trasferito	trasferire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
recare	recare	VERB	V	advcl
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
modificano	modificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocano	revocare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
espropriata	espropriato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espropriata	espropriare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
brevettazione	brevettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
corrispondersi	corrispondere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
raggiunge	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Collegio	Collegio	PROPN	SP	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitratori	arbitratore	NOUN	S	nmod
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
due	due	NUM	N	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
disaccordo	disaccordo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzata	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
arbitratori	arbitratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	ROOT
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
806	806	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Collegio	Collegio	PROPN	SP	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitratori	arbitratore	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
apprezzamento	apprezzamento	NOUN	S	obl
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sarebbe	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
derivato	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
espropriato	espropriato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitraggio	arbitraggio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
onorari	onorario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
onorari	onorario	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidati	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
gravare	gravare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
grava	gravare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
espropriato	espropriato	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
offerta	offrire	VERB	V	acl
inizialmente	inizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitratari	arbitratario	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
specializzata	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantificazione	quantificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
195	195	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domande	domande	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatte	redatre	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
giustifica	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obj
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elencazione	elencazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cambiamento	cambiamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
serio	serio	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
196	196	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
uniti	Uniti	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cambiamento	cambiamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modifica	modifica	NOUN	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reali	reale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	i	ADJ	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
138	138	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
h	h	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
138	138	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fusione	fusione	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	obj
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
firmata	firmare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cedente	cedente	VERB	V	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessionario	cessionario	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elencazione	elencazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	ccomp
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
comprovante	comprovante	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritti	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cambiamento	cambiamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
trascrivere	trascrivere	VERB	V	acl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mandatario	mandatario	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
dovrà	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
unire	unire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quella	quello	PRON	PD	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avente	avere	VERB	V	nmod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conservati	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazioni	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
convertire	convertire	VERB	V	csubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
moneta	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cambio	cambio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
197	197	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Annotazioni	Annotazioni	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
mutamenti	mutamente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portati	portare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cambiamento	cambiamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatta	redaggere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
unico	unico	ADJ	A	obl
esemplare	esemplare	VERB	V	xcomp
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cambiamento	cambiamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscritte	sottoscritto	VERB	V	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
pronunciano	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
pervenute	pervenute	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotate	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	conj
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
198	198	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedure	procedure	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
segretazione	segretazione	NOUN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Coloro	coloro	PRON	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risiedono	risiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevente	ricevente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
dette	dette	VERB	V	advcl
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguardino	riguardino	VERB	V	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potrebbero	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
utili	utile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositarle	depositare le	VERB	V_PC	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trascorsi	trascorrere	VERB	V	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
predetto	predetto	ADJ	V	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	obj
osta	osto	ADJ	V	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trascorso	Trascorso	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuto	intervenere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
realizzate	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ratificati	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
presti	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
filiali	filiale	NOUN	S	obl
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
multinazionali	multinazionale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
capogruppo	capogruppo	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ceduto	cedere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
77,47	77,47	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
negata	negare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
mette	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
immediatezza	immediatezza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	conj
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
pervenute	pervenuto	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
Servizio	servizio	NOUN	SP	nsubj
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	amod
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguardino	riguardare	VERB	V	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	conj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
estranei	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	SP	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
delegati	delegare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	ccomp
visione	visione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizioni	descrizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendicazioni	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
allegati	allegare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
preso	prendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
visione	visione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	conj
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diffidandolo	diffidandolo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
inviato	inviare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
voler	volere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
predetto	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ulteriormente	ulteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
differito	differire	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avente	avente	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accordino	accordare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
assoggettate	assoggettare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nsubj
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
segreta	segreto	ADJ	A	xcomp
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	DET	DD	nsubj
porti	portare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuta	tenere	NOUN	S	ROOT
segreta	segreto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	il	DET	RD	obj
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vigilati	vigilare	VERB	V	conj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenute	mantenere	VERB	V	ccomp
segrete	segreto	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
interessante	interessante	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
richieda	richiedere	VERB	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
Ministero	Ministero	PROPN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
segreta	segreto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
visioni	visione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

17	17	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizioni	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
particolareggiato	particolareggiato	ADJ	A	xcomp
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trovati	trovato	NOUN	S	conj
consegnati	consegnare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ritenersi	ritenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
utili	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
chiarimenti	chiarimente	NOUN	S	obj
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trovati	trovare	NOUN	V	conj
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

18	18	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
organizzatori	organizzatore	NOUN	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizioni	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
consegnare	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elenchi	elenco	ADJ	A	amod
completi	completo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	advcl
riferentisi	riferentiso	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

19	19	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
imporre	imporre	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

20	20	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dare	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidenza	presidenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diffidandoli	diffidandole	NOUN	S	conj
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
presidenza	presidenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
conservare	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

21	21	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imposto	imporre	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esposti	esporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subito	subito	ADV	B	advmod
ritirati	ritirare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
peraltro	peraltro	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

22	22	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
riconosciute	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
utili	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall	dall	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
topografia	topografia	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

23	23	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
abusiva	abusiva	NOUN	S	nmod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	compound
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
25,00	25,00	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
13.000,00	13.000,00	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
199	199	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
voglia	voglia	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
71	71	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	appos
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	obl
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	conj
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
offerto	offerto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
pronta	pronto	ADJ	DI	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquistato	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
trascritti	trascritto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
trascritti	trascritto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
convoca	convocare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istante	istante	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
trascritti	trascritto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inviato	inviare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
siffatte	siffatto	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj
garantiscano	garantiscare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
certezza	certezza	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istante	istante	ADJ	A	amod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
presentate	presentato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
controdeduzioni	controdeduzione	NOUN	S	obj
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
concede	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	ROOT
giorni	giorno	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
200	200	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obl
comprovante	comprovante	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
226	226	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
complementare	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
officina	officina	NOUN	S	nmod
farmaceutica	farmaceutico	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obj
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltrare	inoltrare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
garantiscano	garantiscare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UIBM	UIBM	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
allegata	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
inglese	inglese	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
UIBM	UIBM	PROPN	SP	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
pronta	pronto	ADJ	DI	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
garantiscano	garantiscare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
complementare	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
trascritti	trascritto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prorogabili	prorogabile	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
raggiungano	raggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
royalty	royalty	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuta	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
analoghe	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
UIBM	UIBM	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
rilievi	rilievare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
perfezionato	perfezionare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
comunichino	comunichare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
UIBM	UIBM	PROPN	SP	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
raggiungere	raggiungere	VERB	V	csubj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compito	compito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
raggiungere	raggiungere	VERB	V	csubj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composta	comporre	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altrettanti	altrettanto	DET	DI	amod
supplenti	supplente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
farmaco	farmaco	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detentori	detentore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
CCP	CCP	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
farmaceutici	farmaceutico	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
UIBM	UIBM	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
raggiunto	raggiungere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	acl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
finalizzato	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
contemperare	contemperare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantendo	garantere	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
equa	equo	ADJ	A	amod
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
royalty	royalty	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuta	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tengono	tengere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competizione	competizione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonostante	nonostante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
mediazione	mediazione	NOUN	S	obl
ministeriale	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	B	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ravvisi	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
garante	garante	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ORDINAMENTO	ORDINAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
PROFESSIONALE	PROFESSIONALE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
201	201	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rappresentanza	Rappresentanza	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
rappresentare	rappresentare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	obl
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
agire	agire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abilitato	abilitato	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
collegata	collegare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
mandatari	mandatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
separato	separato	NOUN	S	nmod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autentico	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autenticato	autenticare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tassa	tassa	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritta	prescritto	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riguardare	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
mandatario	mandatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
dovrà	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mandatari	mandatario	NOUN	S	obl
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
albo	albo	NOUN	A	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	obl
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	A	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	obl
iscritto	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
albo	albo	ADJ	A	amod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
202	202	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	obl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	NOUN	V_PC	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunta	assungere	VERB	V	ROOT
unicamente	unico	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
albo	albo	ADJ	A	amod
istituito	istituito	VERB	V	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
denominato	denominato	NOUN	S	conj
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albi	albo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
denominate	denominare	VERB	V	acl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riservate	riservare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	A	amod
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	conj
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
seconda	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
203	203	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Requisiti	Requisiti	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritta	iscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
morale	morale	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nsubj
vige	vigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
abbia	avere	VERB	V	parataxis
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	conj
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	PROPN	SP	nmod
extra	extra	ADV	S	advmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consentano	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
corrispondenti	corrispondente	NOUN	S	nmod
albi	albo	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
comprovanti	comprovantare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
includente	includente	ADV	B	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
autocertificazioni	autocertificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prontamente	prontamente	ADV	A	advmod
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
occasionale	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
automaticamente	automaticamente	ADV	B	advmod
iscritti	iscritto	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
legale	legale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
connesse	connere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	obl
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
204	204	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riservato	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	V	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	amod

devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	V	amod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	compound
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
entrambe	entrambi	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
specificazioni	specificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
202	202	NUM	N	nummod
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
regolano	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
topografie	topografie	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
semiconduttori	semiconduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seconda	seconda	ADV	B	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
iscritte	iscritte	VERB	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esse	Esse	PROPN	PE	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
certificare	certificare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzioni	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
proveniente	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
prodursi	produre si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	essi	PRON	PE	nsubj
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
affine	affina	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
connessa	connesso	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essi	esso	PRON	PE	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	parataxis
diversa	diverso	ADJ	DI	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
agire	agire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ognuno	ognuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
agisca	agire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
seno	seno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
detta	detto	ADJ	A	amod
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
205	205	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incompatibilità	Incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	A	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cariche	carica	NOUN	S	conj
rivestite	rivestire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
specializzati	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
autonomi	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
organizzati	organizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
insegnamento	insegnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
esercitata	esercitato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notaio	notaio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
giornalista	giornalista	NOUN	S	nmod
professionista	professionista	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
mediatore	mediatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cambio	cambio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esattore	esattore	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
compatibile	compatibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
albi	albo	NOUN	S	nmod
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
organizzati	organizzare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
operare	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impresa	imprendere	NOUN	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dipendono	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	ROOT
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
inseriti	inserito	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
con	con	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
sistematici	sistematico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scambi	scambio	NOUN	S	conj
tecnologici	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
206	206	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
207	207	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenuto	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
una	uno	DET	RI	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
nominata	nominato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
202	202	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
made	made	X	SW	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italy	Italy	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
composta	composto	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
sessione	sessione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
delegato	delegato	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
professori	professore	NOUN	S	ROOT
universitari	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
supplenti	supplente	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
made	made	X	SW	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italy	Italy	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
supplenti	supplente	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
215	215	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
scelto	scelto	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
laurea	laurea	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
universitario	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
Paese	paese	PROPN	SP	obl
estero	estero	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diploma	diploma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
includenti	includentare	ADJ	V	csubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
candidato	candidato	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
seguito	seguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
successo	successo	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
post	post	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondari	secondario	NOUN	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
università	università	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
abbia	avere	VERB	VA	acl
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
attinente	attinente	VERB	A	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
seconda	seconda	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesto	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
specializzati	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documentato	documentare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
brevetti	brevettare	VERB	V	advcl
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
superato	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tirocinio	tirocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitato	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
candidato	candidato	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
frequentato	frequentare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seconda	seconda	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesto	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	compound
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
tendenti	tendento	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
teorico	teorico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
pratica	pratica	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
candidato	candidato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	nmod
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cultura	cultura	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
linguistica	linguistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanarsi	emanare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	compound
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indetto	indetto	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
208	208	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esonero	Esonero	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esonerati	esonerare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	A	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	conj
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	amod
direttive	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	SP	conj
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	conj
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
esonerati	esonerare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esaminatori	esaminatore	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
209	209	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitato	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
albo	albo	ADJ	A	amod
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
202	202	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impresa	imprendere	NOUN	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anzianità	anzianità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	SP	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anzianità	anzianità	NOUN	S	obj
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
dedotta	dedotre	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
210	210	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Cancellazione	cancellazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cancellato	cancellare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
venuto	venire	VERB	V	advcl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
203	203	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reiscrizione	reiscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	A	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessate	cessare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoposizione	sottoposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interdittive	interdittivo	ADJ	A	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
III	III	ADJ	NO	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	appos
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
fissato	fissato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertato	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
211	211	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinari	disciplinare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
censura	censura	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abusi	abuso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mancanze	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lieve	lieve	ADJ	A	amod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abusi	abuso	NOUN	S	nmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
radiazione	radiazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gravemente	gravemente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
reputazione	reputazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
212	212	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convocata	convocare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
delibera	delibera	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
seconda	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aver	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentati	rappresentare	VERB	V	conj
raggiungono	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
delibera	deliberare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	obl
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
voti	voto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
iscritto	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	A	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
rappresentare	rappresentare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
iscritto	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	SP	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
delega	delega	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un	uno	DET	RI	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
partecipante	partecipante	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rappresentare	rappresentare	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
213	213	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Compiti	Compiti	PROPN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riunisce	riunire	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	NUM	N	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
preventivo	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
consuntivo	consuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
occorrendo	occorrendo	ADP	E	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
qual	quale	PRON	DQ	det:poss
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	conj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riunisce	riunire	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
reputi	reputo	NOUN	S	obj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
argomenti	argomento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
trattare	trattare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
214	214	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
215	215	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eletti	eleggere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	obl
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
voti	voto	NOUN	S	nmod
segreti	segreto	ADJ	A	amod
validamente	validamente	ADV	B	advmod
espressi	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
schede	scheda	NOUN	S	nmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Vengono	Vengono	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eletti	eleggere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riportato	riportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
maggior	maggior	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
voti	voto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preferito	preferire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
candidato	candidato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
anziano	anziano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
anzianità	anzianità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
anziano	anziano	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
autonoma	autonomo	PROPN	SP	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	CCONJ	CC	cop
individualmente	individualmente	ADV	B	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
autonomi	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
specializzati	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentata	rappresentare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
seno	seno	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
più	più	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	advmod
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	ADJ	A	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentata	rappresentare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
seno	seno	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
più	più	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazioni	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
votazioni	votazione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
delega	delega	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
votazione	votazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
votazioni	votazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scrutinio	scrutinio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
proclamazione	proclamazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eletti	eletto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
215	215	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
retto	reggere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dura	durare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carica	carica	NOUN	S	obl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composto	comporre	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
meno	meno	PRON	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anzianità	anzianità	NOUN	S	nmod
eletti	eleggere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
sostituire	sostituire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obj
cessati	cessare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamati	chiamare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
eletti	eletto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
maggior	maggior	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
voti	voto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
tempestivo	tempestivo	ADJ	A	nmod
rinnovo	rinnovo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
continua	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
funzionare	funzionare	VERB	V	xcomp
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riunisce	riunire	VERB	V	ROOT
validamente	validamente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delibera	delibera	NOUN	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	obl
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nmod
prevale	prevale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
voto	voto	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinare	disciplinare	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
delibera	deliberare	ADJ	V	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
quarti	quarto	ADJ	NO	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
216	216	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attribuzioni	Attribuzioni	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
ratifica	ratifica	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	SP	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
seduta	seduta	NOUN	S	nmod
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
rimanenti	rimanenti	ADJ	A	amod
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
conferite	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
delegare	delegare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	amod
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tesoreria	tesoreria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
vice	vice	ADJ	A	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
delega	delega	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
217	217	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attribuzioni	Attribuzioni	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensioni	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancellazioni	cancellazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	nsubj
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
vigila	vigila	NUM	N	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
propone	proporre	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	obl
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
concorde	concorde	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
comporre	comporre	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sorgono	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
propone	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aggiornamenti	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cliente	cliente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
abilitato	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spettanze	spettanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
disciplinari	disciplinare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
designa	designare	VERB	V	ROOT

i	il	DET	RD	det
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
formare	formare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
207	207	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
miglioramento	miglioramento	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
perfezionamento	perfezionamento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	DET	NO	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
predispone	predispone	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
l	l	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riscuote	riscuotere	VERB	V	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministra	amministra	DET	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
predispone	predisponere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
preventivo	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
redige	redigere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
consuntivo	consuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

n	n	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
207	207	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
rispondenza	rispondenza	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
mantiene	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
collabora	collabora	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
attinenza	attinenza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formulando	formulare	VERB	V	advcl
ove	ove	ADV	B	case
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pareri	parere	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
p	p	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ccomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nsubj
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumentalità	strumentalità	NOUN	S	nmod
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
p	p	X	X	obl
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tirocinanti	tirocinanto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
aggiornamenti	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
218	218	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decadenza	Decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
carica	carica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
componente	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificati	giustificato	NOUN	S	obl
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
intervengono	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	obl
consecutive	consecutivo	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sedute	seduta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	det
dichiarati	dichiarato	NOUN	S	obl
decaduti	decadere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
carica	carica	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sciolto	sciolre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
funzionare	funzionare	VERB	V	acl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessati	cessare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decaduti	decadere	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originari	originario	NOUN	S	nmod
componenti	componente	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	acl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
commissario	commissario	NOUN	S	ROOT
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
commissario	commissario	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
indire	indire	VERB	V	xcomp
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
elezioni	elezione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riunirsi	riunire si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
219	219	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sedute	Seduta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convocato	convocare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	NUM	N	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
deliberazioni	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
verbalizzate	verbalizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
componente	componente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
segretario	segretario	NOUN	S	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
seduta	seduta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
220	220	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinare	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
perviene	pervenire	VERB	V	advcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
condurre	condurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinari	disciplinare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
211	211	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
nomina	nomina	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
membri	membro	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
preceda	precedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esaminate	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delibera	deliberare	VERB	V	parataxis
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	obl
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenti	presente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
voti	voto	NOUN	S	nmod
prevale	prevale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incolpato	incolpato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
pervenire	pervenire	VERB	V	ccomp
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
difensiva	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dimostrato	dimostrare	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
enunciazione	enunciazione	NOUN	S	conj
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricusati	ricusare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	A	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	PROPN	SP	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenienza	convenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obl
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
221	221	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ricorso	Ricorso	PROPN	SP	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
esperibile	esperibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operato	operato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzionalità	funzionalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	obl
constatata	constatato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delibera	delibera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
222	222	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tariffa	Tariffa	PROPN	SP	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
approva	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aggiornamenti	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
proposti	proposre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
217	217	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obj
aggiuntivi	aggiuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
VII	VII	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
GESTIONE	gESTIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod

DEI	DEI	ADJ	SP	case
SERVIZI	SERVIZI	NOUN	S	ROOT
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
DIRITTI	DIRITTI	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
223	223	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Compiti	Compiti	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
regolata	regolare	VERB	A	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatte	Fatte	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantiene	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurando	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
creazione	creazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
brevettuali	brevettuale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	nmod
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
operante	operante	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
innovazione	innovazione	NOUN	S	conj
tecnologica	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	conj
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cultura	cultura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
potenziali	potenziale	ADJ	A	amod
utenti	utente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
medie	medio	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
zone	zona	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblicazioni	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
correlate	correlare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicatori	indicatore	NOUN	S	nmod
brevettuali	brevettuale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	nmod
competitiva	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	PRON	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	conj
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
camere	camera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
224	224	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Risorse	risorse	PROPN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assolvimento	assolvimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anteriorità	anteriorità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritte	iscrittere	VERB	V	xcomp
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
corrispettivi	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	obl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
riscossi	riscossi	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
resi	rendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
corrispondere	corrispondere	VERB	V	xcomp
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Monaco	Monaco	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assolvimento	assolvimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
provento	provento	NOUN	S	conj
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
225	225	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ottenimento	ottenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
governativa	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervallo	intervallo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
tassa	tassa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	obl
posteriore	posteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	V	nmod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
chiedono	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mondiale	mondiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ginevra	Ginevra	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Protocollo	protocollo	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Madrid	Madrid	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
169	169	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
226	226	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
governativa	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
227	227	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagati	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
anticipatamente	anticipatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trascorso	trascorrere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
coperto	coprire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decennio	decennio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
invenzione	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
maturati	maturare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
maturati	maturare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
pagabili	pagabili	ADJ	A	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
privative	privativa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativo	NOUN	A	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
109	109	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativa	NOUN	A	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagati	pagare	VERB	V	conj
anticipatamente	anticipatamente	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trascorso	Trascorso	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pagarsi	pagare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
anticipatamente	anticipatamente	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
solidalmente	solidalmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europei	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
validi	valido	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Bollettino	Bollettino	PROPN	SP	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
europei	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolarizzazione	regolarizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
pagate	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	det:poss
trattasi	trattasi	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nsubj
versate	versato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
classi	classe	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
chiaramente	chiaramente	ADV	B	advmod
quali	quale	PRON	B	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
le	il	DET	RD	det
classi	classe	NOUN	S	nsubj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
versato	versare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
prende	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
classi	classe	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
228	228	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esenzione	Esenzione	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
dimostri	dimostro	PRON	PI	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indigenza	indigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
concedere	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadere	scadere	VERB	V	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
arretrati	arretrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventore	inventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
229	229	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tasse	Tasse	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
rimborsabili	rimborsabili	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	NOUN	B	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsate	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
governativa	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	B	mark
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsato	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
made	made	X	SW	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italy	Italy	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
rimborsare	rimborsare	VERB	V	acl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
respinta	respinta	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avente	avente	VERB	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
inviata	inviare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dato	VERB	S	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
230	230	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Pagamento	Pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
incompleto	incompleto	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
evidente	evidente	ADJ	A	amod
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
scusabili	scusabile	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagato	pagare	VERB	V	advcl
incompletamente	incompletamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
irregolarmente	irregolarmente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ammettere	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
utile	utile	NOUN	A	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarizzazione	regolarizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tardiva	tardivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
brevetti	brevetto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
regolarizzazione	regolarizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
227	227	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	obl
incompleta	incompleta	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinta	respintare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	amod
TRANSITORIE	TRANSITORIE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
FINALI	FINALI	PROPN	A	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Marchi	Marchi	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
231	231	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriorio	NOUN	S	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattate	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
contenute	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
preesistenti	preesistente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
232	232	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
rinomato	rinomato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrare	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
goda	godere	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinomanza	rinomanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
identico	identico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simile	simile	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
affini	affino	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
233	233	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	advmod
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquistato	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
distintivo	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
tre	tre	NUM	N	nsubj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
considerarsi	considerare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
decaduto	decadere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
234	234	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
235	235	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decadenza	Decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
decaduti	decadere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
236	236	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decadenza	Decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
ingannevole	ingannevole	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
ingannevole	ingannevole	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
ingannevole	ingannevole	ADJ	A	amod
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Disegni	disegni	PROPN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
237	237	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriorio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
ornamentale	ornamentale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattate	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
contenute	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obl
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
238	238	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Proroga	Proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
ornamentale	ornamentale	ADJ	A	amod
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
scaduti	scaduto	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
decaduti	decadere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogati	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
venticinque	venticinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
licenziatari	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vista	vista	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prossima	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
avevano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
investimenti	investimento	NOUN	S	obj
seri	serio	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
gratuita	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffattori	contraffattore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
scaduti	scaduto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
corrisposte	corrisposta	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
valgono	valere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
prime	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
proroghe	proroga	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
governative	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	advcl
data	dare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl:agent
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rata	rata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1972	1972	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
641	641	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
239	239	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limiti	Limiti	PROPN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
accordata	accordare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
d'	di	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
accordata	accordare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1941	1941	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
633	633	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
erano	essere	AUX	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
erano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenute	divenute	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
dominio	dominio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avevano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fabbricato	fabbricare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercializzato	commercializzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
allora	allora	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
dominio	dominio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondono	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuta	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
proseguendo	proseguere	VERB	V	advcl
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	det:poss
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
19	19	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	det:poss
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tredici	tredici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
detta	dettare	VERB	V	advcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
mantenuta	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quantitativi	quantitativo	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preuso	preuso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
240	240	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
ornamentali	ornamentale	ADJ	A	amod
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	advmod
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
declaratoria	declaratoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
241	241	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
98/71	98/71	PROPN	SP	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatti	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ripristinarne	ripristinare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aspetto	aspetto	NOUN	S	obj
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nuove	nuove	ADJ	A	amod
Varietà	Varietà	NOUN	S	compound
Vegetali	Vegetali	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
242	242	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
licenziatari	licenziatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
455	455	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
seri	serio	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	conj
investimenti	investimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
varietà	varietà	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
coperte	copertire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
costitutore	costitutore	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
gratuita	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffattori	contraffattore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
scaduti	scaduto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
versati	versare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privative	privativa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
vegetali	vegetale	ADJ	A	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concesse	concere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privativa	privativa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
455	455	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Invenzioni	invenzioni	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
243	243	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Invenzioni	Invenzioni	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricercatori	ricercatore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
intercorre	intercorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
università	università	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dettata	dettare	VERB	V	advcl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
24-bis	24-bis	NUM	N	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1939	1939	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1127	1127	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introdotto	introdurre	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
18	18	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
383	383	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	conj
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguite	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
cominciate	cominciare	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
243-bis	243-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Relazione	Relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
biotecnologiche	biotecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	obl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	capo	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
-	-	NOUN	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Codice	Codice	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriorio	NOUN	S	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
244	244	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trattate	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
contenute	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
preesistenti	preesistente	ADJ	A	amod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevibilità	ricevibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Procedura	Procedura	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
245	245	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
procedurali	procedurale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
36	36	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrati	arbitrato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iniziati	iniziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
notificato	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iniziate	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
devolute	devoluto	PRON	S	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzate	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
iniziati	iniziare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
svolti	svogliere	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	ccomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iniziate	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
devolute	devoluto	PRON	S	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzate	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
concesse	concedere	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
137,146	137,146	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
194	194	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
196	196	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
198	198	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
199	199	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
200	200	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
245-bis	245-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Regime	regime	PROPN	SP	nmod
transitorio	transitorio	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
brevetto	brevetto	NOUN	S	obj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pendenti	pendente	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
unificato	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
promosse	promuovere	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
transitorio	transitorio	NOUN	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	NOUN	S	obl
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
VII	VII	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Abrogazioni	Abrogazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
246	246	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
abrogative	abrogativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogate	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	i	ADJ	NO	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1977	1977	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
r	r	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CIAMPI	CIAMPI	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Berlusconi	Berlusconi	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Marzano	Marzano	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Castelli	Castelli	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Siniscalco	siniscalco	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fini	Fini	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	ROOT
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Baccini	Baccini	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

Castelli	Castelli	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep