Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Definizioni	definizioni	PROPN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
radioprotezione	radioprotezione	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Principi	Principi	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattive	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
sussidiaria	sussidiario	ADJ	A	amod
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorgenti	sorgente	NOUN	S	nmod
sigillate	sigillato	ADJ	A	amod
dismesse	dismettere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitore	fornitore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reattori	reattore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	PROPN	SP	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
proviene	provenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reattori	reattore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	conj
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	conj
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritrattamento	ritrattamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
sussidiaria	sussidiario	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
agli	a il	DET	E_RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	obl
sicuro	sicuro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
radioattive	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
qualificabili	qualificabile	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
sottoprodotti	sottoprodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obl
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritrattamento	ritrattamento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	conj
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritrattamento	ritrattamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sussidiaria	sussidiario	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
sicuro	sicuro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
radioattive	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
qualificabili	qualificabile	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
sottoprodotti	sottoprodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obl
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritrattamento	ritrattamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	ROOT
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	conj
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
radioattive	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
spedite	spedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
umane	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziarie	finanziaria	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	conj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1962	1962	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1860	1860	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
aggiunte	aggiunta	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perimetro	perimetro	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
 
	 
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disattivazione	disattivazione	NOUN	S	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
connessi	connesso	ADJ	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiunte	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
c	c	NOUN	V	nmod
-	-	NOUN	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
struttura	struttura	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nsubj
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
lo	il	DET	RD	det
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	amod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cernita	cernito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
manipolazione	manipolazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pretrattamento	pretrattamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stoccaggio	stoccaggio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	PRON	PC	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
quater	quater	PROPN	SP	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
struttura	struttura	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nsubj
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	amod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
quinquies	quinquies	X	SW	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	ROOT
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
irraggiato	irraggiato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
rimosso	rimottere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
nocciolo	nocciolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reattore	reattore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
risorsa	risorsa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
utilizzabile	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ritrattare	ritrattare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
rifiuto	rifiuto	VERB	V	xcomp
radioattivo	radioattivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	amod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
sexies	sexies	NOUN	S	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
manipolazione	manipolazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stoccaggio	stoccaggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritrattamento	ritrattamento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	amod
-	-	NUM	S	punct
septies	septies	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
struttura	struttura	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nsubj
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	amod
-	-	NUM	S	punct
octies	octies	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ritrattamento	ritrattamento	NOUN	S	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

un	uno	DET	RI	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
intesi	intese	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
estrarre	estrarre	VERB	V	xcomp
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obj
fissili	fissile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fertili	fertile	ADJ	A	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	amod
-	-	ADJ	S	punct
nonies	nonies	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
stoccaggio	stoccaggio	NOUN	S	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intenzione	intenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
recuperarli	recuperare li	VERB	V_PC	acl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	ADJ	NO	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	ROOT
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
materia	materia	NOUN	S	ROOT
radioattiva	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
gassosa	gassoso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquida	liquidare	PROPN	SP	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
solida	solido	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
contenuta	contenuto	ADJ	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
riciclo	riciclo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	conj
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
preso	prendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolamentata	regolamentare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obl
radioattivo	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
n	n	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
n	n	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
smaltimento	smaltimento	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
collocazione	collocazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	conj
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
idonee	idonee	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
intenzione	intenzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
recuperarli	recuperare li	VERB	V_PC	acl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	NOUN	S	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32-bis	32-bis	NUM	A	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Specifiche	specifiche	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizioni	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pratiche	pratico	ADJ	A	obj
comportanti	comportante	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
situati	situare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
epoca	epoca	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vigente	vigente	ADV	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
situato	situare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tenga	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
2006/117	2006/117	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
Euratom	Euratom	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
una	uno	DET	RI	det
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	advmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
accerta	accertare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicativi	indicativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
elevato	elevato	ADJ	A	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
equivalenti	equivalere	VERB	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2011/70	2011/70	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
Euratom	Euratom	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	CCONJ	CC	cc
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
gestito	gestire	VERB	V	conj
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorgenti	sorgente	NOUN	S	nmod
sigillate	sigillato	ADJ	A	amod
dismesse	dismettere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitore	fornitore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reattori	reattore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
reattori	reattore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nsubj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
installazioni	installazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
compatibilità	compatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
VII	VII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
installazioni	installazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
installazioni	installazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
proprie	proprio	DET	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	obl
osta	osta	NOUN	S	compound
preventivo	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministeri	Ministeri	PROPN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonoma	autonomo	PROPN	SP	obl
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
radioattività	radioattività	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concentrazione	concentrazione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
tipi	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
procedurali	procedurale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diverse	diverso	DET	DI	amod
tipologie	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
installazione	installazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
tipologie	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
articolare	articolare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
disattivazione	disattivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	nmod
osta	osto	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
incluse	includere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rubrica	rubrica	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
VII	VII	ADJ	NO	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	ROOT
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
58-bis	58-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parola	parola	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	S	ROOT
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
58-bis	58-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parola	parola	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	ROOT
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	conj
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
58-ter	58-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parola	parola	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	ROOT
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
58-quater	58-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
58-quinquies	58-quinquies	NUM	N	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
aggiunti	aggiunto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	appos
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
23	23	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
2011/70	2011/70	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
Euratom	Euratom	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cicli	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
282	282	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzano	organizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
2011/70	2011/70	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
Euratom	Euratom	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
temi	tema	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obj
inter	inter	PROPN	SP	nmod
pares	pares	NOUN	SW	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
raggiunti	raggiungere	VERB	V	ccomp
elevati	elevato	ADJ	A	xcomp
standard	standard	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
sicura	sicuro	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifiche	verificho	ADJ	A	amod
inter	inter	NOUN	S	nmod
pares	pares	X	SW	flat:name
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resi	rendere	VERB	V	conj
accessibili	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
confliggano	confliggare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
proprietarie	proprietario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
f	f	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
aggiunte	aggiunta	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	VERB	V	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dato	dato	NOUN	S	amod
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
collocazione	collocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obj
sicuro	sicuro	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
continuano	continuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitati	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
radiologico	radiologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	acl
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concentrazione	concentrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimezzamento	dimezzamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
radionuclidi	radionuclido	NOUN	S	nmod
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
presenti	presente	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
superficiali	superficiale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bassa	bassa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
media	medio	ADJ	A	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
varia	variare	VERB	V	ROOT
generalmente	generalmente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	DET	DI	det
centinaia	centinaio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

»	»	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiunto	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parco	parco	NOUN	S	nmod
Tecnologico	Tecnologico	PROPN	SP	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
sostenibile	sostenibile	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ENEA	ENEA	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
2011/70	2011/70	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
Euratom	Euratom	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	obj
conseguiti	conseguito	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
prefissati	prefissare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Sogin	Sogin	PROPN	SP	ROOT
S.p	S.p	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A.	A.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
manufatti	manufatto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Deposito	Deposito	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Sogin	Sogin	PROPN	SP	ROOT
S.p	S.p	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A.	A.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzata	utilizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
seguite	seguire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elaborazione	elaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Carta	Carta	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
validazione	validazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
cartografici	cartografico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coerenza	coerenza	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
trasmette	trasmette	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	CCONJ	CC	nsubj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
nulla	nulla	NOUN	PI	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
Sogin	Sogin	PROPN	SP	obl
S.p	S.p	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	S	punct

A.	A.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recepiti	recepire	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	obj
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obl
osta	osto	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provveda	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28-bis	28-bis	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
connesse	connesso	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Deposito	Deposito	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministeri	Ministeri	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonoma	autonomo	PROPN	SP	dep
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Detta	Detta	VERB	V	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
intermedie	intermedia	NOUN	A	nsubj:pass
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	E	case
allo	a il	DET	E_RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
post	post	ADJ	A	amod
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministeri	Ministeri	PROPN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonoma	autonomo	PROPN	SP	dep
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	ROOT
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
documentare	documentare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
eseguite	eseguito	ADJ	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emette	emettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
connesse	connere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

 
	 
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
interministeriale	interministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
standard	standard	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	conj
tipologie	tipologio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
 
	 
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
radioprotezione	radioprotezione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ispettorato	Ispettorato	NOUN	S	ROOT
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
radioprotezione	radioprotezione	NOUN	S	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
espletando	espletare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
istruttorie	istruttoria	NOUN	S	obj
connesse	connesso	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzativi	autorizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
installazioni	installazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
disattivazioni	disattivazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reattori	reattore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
connesse	connere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	conj
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
esaurito	esaurire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	conj
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
passiva	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
installazioni	installazione	NOUN	S	conj
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sorgenti	sorgente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
radiazioni	radiazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ionizzanti	ionizzanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattive	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
emanando	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tema	tema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattive	radioattiva	ADJ	S	amod
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Emana	emana	NOUN	S	ROOT
guide	guido	ADJ	A	amod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	conj
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministeri	ministere	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elaborazione	elaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rango	rango	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fornisce	Fornisce	VERB	V	advcl
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pianificazione	pianificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emergenze	emergenza	NOUN	S	nmod
radiologiche	radiologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
radioattività	radioattività	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
salvaguardie	salvaguardia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	conj
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
irraggiato	irraggiato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
classificate	classificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
organi	organo	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
Consulta	Consulta	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
durano	durare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carica	carica	NOUN	S	obl
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rinnovabili	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revisori	revisore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
favorevoli	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
parlamentari	parlamentare	NOUN	S	compound
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
potrà	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
parere	parere	NOUN	S	compound
espresso	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	obl
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
Commissioni	commissione	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
definisce	definire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
linee	linea	NOUN	S	obj
strategiche	strategico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	conj
operativi	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
definisce	definire	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
organizzative	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
tempistiche	tempistica	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elaborazione	elaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
emana	emanare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
emana	emanare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	obj
vincolanti	vincolante	ADJ	A	amod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruttorie	istruttorio	NOUN	DI	nmod
autorizzative	autorizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
condotte	condurre	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
consessi	consesso	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	PROPN	SP	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scelto	scegliere	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indiscussa	indiscusso	ADJ	DI	amod
moralità	moralità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
comprovata	comprovare	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentata	documentare	VERB	V	conj
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
elevata	elevato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
radioprotezione	radioprotezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
complessi	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
estremi	estremio	NOUN	S	compound
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incidentali	incidentale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intrattenere	intrattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
operanti	operante	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	NOUN	S	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispettivo	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
percepito	percepito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprenditore	imprenditore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
violato	violare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	NOUN	S	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
0,5	0,5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatturato	fatturato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
150.000	150.000	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reiterato	reiterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzativo	autorizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
inerente	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
illecitamente	illecitamente	ADV	B	advmod
condotta	condurre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivalutati	rivalutare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indice	indice	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
operai	operaio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	conj
rilevato	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISTAT	ISTAT	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Consulta	Consulta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzativo	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indiscussa	indiscusso	ADJ	DI	amod
moralità	moralità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
comprovata	comprovare	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentata	documentare	VERB	V	conj
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
elevata	elevato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
radioprotezione	radioprotezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
complessi	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
estremi	estremio	NOUN	S	compound
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incidentali	incidentale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consulta	consulta	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
favorevoli	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
parlamentari	parlamentare	NOUN	S	compound
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
nomine	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
parere	parere	NOUN	S	compound
espresso	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	obl
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
Commissioni	commissione	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Consulta	Consulta	NOUN	S	nsubj
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
piani	piano	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
programmatici	programmatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	conj
operativi	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
interni	interno	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guide	guida	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
predisposte	predispostere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferma	Ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23-ter	23-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
energetica	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	SP	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruoli	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
collocato	collocare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	fixed
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aspettativa	aspettativa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
analoga	analogo	ADJ	A	conj
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mantenendo	mantenere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Resta	restare	VERB	S	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23-ter	23-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consulta	consulta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Collegio	Collegio	PROPN	SP	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revisori	revisore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
coperti	coprire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
17	17	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dotato	dotare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provata	provato	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
aree	area	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ispettorato	Ispettorato	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
provata	provato	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
5	5	NUM	N	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dirigenziale	dirigenziale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	obl
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	conj
tecnologico	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISPRA	ISPRA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
ISPRA	ISPRA	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	conj
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
proveniente	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
ISPRA	ISPRA	PROPN	SP	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
collocato	collocare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comando	comando	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conserverà	conservere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economico	economico	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comando	comando	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economico	economico	ADJ	A	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparto	comparto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
Collettivo	Collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
Nazionale	Nazionale	PROPN	SP	nmod
Quadro	Quadro	PROPN	SP	flat:name
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
componente	componente	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consulta	consulta	NOUN	S	obl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
far	fare	VERB	V	conj
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
amministratore	amministratore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
operanti	operanto	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricopre	ricoprire	VERB	V	conj
incarichi	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
elettivi	elettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
partiti	partito	NOUN	S	nmod
politici	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	parataxis
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretti	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
operanti	operante	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricadenti	ricadere	ADJ	A	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inconferibilità	inconferibilità	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarichi	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consulta	Consulta	NOUN	S	nmod
decadono	decade	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
venir	venire	VERB	V	obl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	obj
favorevoli	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
parlamentari	parlamentare	NOUN	S	compound
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
venir	venire	VERB	V	csubj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
opera	operare	VERB	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzativa	organizzativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gestionale	gestionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
radioprotezione	radioprotezione	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiti	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	obl
demaniali	demaniale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	obl
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	A	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1984	1984	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
720	720	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dotato	dotare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	obl
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
performance	performance	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revisori	revisore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composto	comporre	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
specificamente	specificamere	ADJ	V	advcl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
419	419	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ISPRA	ISPRA	PROPN	SP	nsubj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riorganizzazione	riorganizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
interna	interno	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assicuri	assicurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
regolamentate	regolamentare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
onerosa	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dotazioni	dotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
laboratori	laboratorio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatività	operatività	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISPRA	ISPRA	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzie	agenzie	NOUN	S	conj
provinciali	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
scientifico	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soddisfino	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
coinvolti	coinvolto	VERB	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
trasmette	trasmettere	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
formulare	formulare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	conj
interni	interno	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ispettorato	ispettorato	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
attualmente	attualmente	ADV	B	advmod
assegnate	assegnare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	obl
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	parataxis
tecnologico	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISPRA	ISPRA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
introitare	introitare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
ministeriale	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
riassegnate	riassegnare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISPRA	ISPRA	PROPN	SP	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
1.205.000,00	1.205.000,00	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
298	298	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2004	2004	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
311	311	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
493	493	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
266	266	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
assicurato	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obj
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3,81	3,81	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
quota	quota	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
introiti	introito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componente	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
tariffaria	tariffario	ADJ	A	amod
A2	A2	PROPN	SP	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttorie	istruttorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
richiedente	richiedente	VERB	V	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
connesse	connesso	VERB	V	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
delegate	delegare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
poste	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidate	liquidare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
approvati	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

17	17	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
connesse	connere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
corrispettivo	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sostenuti	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
ispirandosi	ispirare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	conj
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	compound
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
web	web	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
approvate	approvare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

18	18	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
assicura	assicura	NOUN	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
radioprotezione	radioprotezione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
personale	personale	ADJ	S	nmod
attribuendo	attribuere	VERB	V	advcl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
seguire	seguire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
contemplare	contemplare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emergenze	emergenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

20	20	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
umane	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziarie	finanziaria	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12	12	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
15	15	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
16	16	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
17	17	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

20-ter	20-ter	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Avvocatura	Avvocatura	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1933	1933	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1611	1611	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definito	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	xcomp
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprendente	comprendente	ADV	B	advmod
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
tipi	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
generazione	generazione	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progressi	progresso	NOUN	S	nmod
scientifici	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccomandazioni	raccomandazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
buone	buono	ADJ	A	amod
prassi	prasso	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
insegnamenti	insegnamente	ADJ	A	conj
tratti	tratto	VERB	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifiche	verificho	ADJ	A	amod
inter	inter	NOUN	S	obl:agent
pares	pares	NOUN	SW	flat:name
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiornato	aggiornare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
Programma	programma	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informano	informare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
occasioni	occasione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
decisionali	decisionale	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
esaurito	esaurire	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
siti	sito	NOUN	S	obl
web	web	NOUN	S	compound
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
schema	schema	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Assicurano	Assicurano	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esprimere	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tenga	tenere	VERB	V	conj
debitamente	debitamente	ADJ	B	det
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
 
	 
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Programma	Programma	NOUN	S	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	obj
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politica	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
riguardante	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
tappe	tappa	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
significative	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chiari	chiaro	ADJ	A	conj
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
temporali	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
tappe	tappa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luce	luce	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
primari	primario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stime	stime	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
future	futuro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
disattivati	disattivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
indichi	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
chiaramente	chiaramente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ubicazione	ubicazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	conj
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
piani	piano	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
generazione	generazione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
allo	a il	DET	E_RD	det
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
incluso	includere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Deposito	Deposito	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
e/o	e/o	CCONJ	CC	cc
piani	piano	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
post	post	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuti	mantenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impiegare	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
conservare	conservare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
indicatori	indicatore	NOUN	S	conj
chiave	chiave	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
monitorare	monitorare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
progressi	progresso	NOUN	S	obj
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
premesse	premessa	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
includere	includere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
profilo	profilo	NOUN	S	obj
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	i	ADJ	NO	det
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
regimi	regimo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	NOUN	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
conclusi	concludere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	conj
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
esaurito	esaurito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
radioattivi	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
transitorie	transitorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finali	finale	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
continuano	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	conj
tecnologico	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISPRA	ISPRA	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	SP	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferito	trasferire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
data	dare	VERB	V	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CNEN	CNEN	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ENEA	ENEA	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
DISP	DISP	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANPA	ANPA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
APAT	APAT	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISPRA	ISPRA	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1962	1962	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1860	1860	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1450	1450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
applicativi	applicativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
normative	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
attualmente	attualmente	ADV	B	advmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	mark
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
rivolto	rivolgere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISIN	ISIN	PROPN	SP	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Abrogazioni	Abrogazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
NAPOLITANO	NAPOLITANO	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Renzi	Renzi	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Guidi	Guidi	PROPN	SP	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Galletti	Galletti	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Mogherini	Mogherini	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Orlando	Orlando	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Padoan	Padoan	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alfano	Alfano	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

Orlando	Orlando	VERB	V	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep