Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
perseguono	perseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
tempestività	tempestività	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
migliore	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legalità	legalità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
funzionale	funzionale	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
miglior	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	obj
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
funzionale	funzionale	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
semplicità	semplicità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
celerità	celerità	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominato	denominare	VERB	V	acl
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	xcomp
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
verificabilità	verificabilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
correlati	correlato	ADJ	A	amod
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economicità	economicità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
perseguito	perseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
prioritario	prioritario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
discrezionale	discrezionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecniche	tecnica	ADJ	A	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
attribuire	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incentivi	incentivo	NOUN	S	obj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrattazione	contrattazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
collettiva	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reciproca	reciproco	ADJ	A	amod
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasparente	trasparente	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
favorisce	favorire	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valorizza	valorizzare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	conj
decisionale	decisionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scelte	scelta	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
auto	auto	NOUN	S	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
palese	palese	ADJ	A	amod
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prudenza	prudenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diligenza	diligenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
preventive	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
normalmente	normalmente	ADV	B	advmod
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
esigibili	esigibile	ADJ	A	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	nmod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
indirizzi	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
giurisprudenziali	giurisprudenziale	ADJ	A	amod
prevalenti	prevalente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasparente	trasparente	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurativa	assicurativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rischi	rischio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
riqualificare	riqualificare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rafforzare	rafforzare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dare	dare	VERB	V	conj
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obl
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
piani	piano	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
favoriscono	favorire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
imparzialità	imparzialità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
proporzionalità	proporzionalità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
interpretativo	interpretativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
applicativo	applicativo	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
interpretano	interpretare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principi	Principi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
reciprocamente	reciprocamente	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
annullata	annullare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
autotutela	autotutela	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
incolpevole	incolpevole	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
illegittimità	illegittimità	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
agevolmente	agevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
rilevabile	rilevabile	ADJ	A	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diligenza	diligenza	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitato	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pregiudizi	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
subiti	subire	ADJ	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provati	provare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interferenza	interferenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	nmod
scorretto	scorretto	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
scelte	scelta	NOUN	S	obl
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivalsa	rivalsa	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	amod
condannati	condannare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
pretermesso	pretermesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
concorrente	concorrente	ADJ	A	amod
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obj
illegittima	illegittimo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	obl
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principi	Principi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sussidiarietà	sussidiarietà	NOUN	S	conj
orizzontale	orizzontale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sussidiarietà	sussidiarietà	NOUN	S	conj
orizzontale	orizzontale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
apprestare	apprestare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
spiccata	spiccato	ADJ	A	amod
valenza	valenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obj
organizzativi	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
condivisa	condiviso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
privi	privo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
sinallagmatici	sinallagmatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fondati	fondare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condivisione	condivisione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
contribuiscano	contribuiscare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perseguimento	perseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasparente	trasparente	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rientrano	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
VII	VII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2017	2017	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
auto	auto	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
organizzano	organizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
auto	auto	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esternalizzazione	esternalizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
house	house	NOUN	S	nmod
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
danno	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vantaggi	vantaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
collettività	collettività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
connesse	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
esternalità	esternalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
congruità	congruità	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perseguimento	perseguimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
universalità	universalità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
socialità	socialità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
economicità	economicità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
celerità	celerità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
razionale	razionale	ADJ	A	conj
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
strumentali	strumentali	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
sufficientemente	sufficientemente	ADV	B	advmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	xcomp
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
dia	dare	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vantaggi	vantaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
economicità	economicità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
celerità	celerità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
perseguimento	perseguimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
strategici	strategico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
vantaggi	vantaggio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
economicità	economicità	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
emergere	emergere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparazione	comparazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
standard	standard	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
Consip	Consip	PROPN	SP	nmod
S.p.a	S.p.a	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiali	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
elaborati	elaborare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
standard	standard	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedere	VERB	V	amod
volta	volta	VERB	V	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perseguimento	perseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
ottica	ottica	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
collaborativa	collaborativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
sinallagmatico	sinallagmatico	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
determina	determinare	VERB	V	parataxis
una	uno	DET	RI	det
convergenza	convergenza	NOUN	S	obj
sinergica	sinergico	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
diversità	diversità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
perseguito	perseguire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
tenda	tendere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
missione	missione	NOUN	S	obj
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	nmod
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
aderenti	aderente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	amod
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	ccomp
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
aperto	aprire	ADJ	A	amod
meno	meno	ADV	B	case
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
20	20	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	mark
perseguire	perseguire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obj
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dotate	dotare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	obl
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
concludere	concludere	VERB	V	conj
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rese	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	obl:agent
gratuitamente	gratuitamente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
equo	equo	ADJ	A	amod
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
15-bis	15-bis	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
15-ter	15-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
15-quater	15-quater	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	obl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
rispondenti	rispondente	ADJ	V	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
azione	azione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sopravvengono	sopravvengere	VERB	V	advcl
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
straordinarie	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprevedibili	imprevedibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estranee	estraneo	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
alea	alea	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
fluttuazione	fluttuazione	NOUN	S	obl
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tali	tale	PRON	PD	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
alterare	alterare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	obj
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
svantaggiata	svantaggiato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	parataxis
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinegoziazione	rinegoziazione	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinegoziazione	rinegoziazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecutore	esecutore	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
valere	valere	VERB	V	xcomp
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
voci	voce	NOUN	S	obl
imprevisti	imprevista	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accantonamenti	accantonamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
economie	economia	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ribasso	ribasso	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinegoziazione	rinegoziazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
limita	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	ADP	PR	advmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
alterarne	alterare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostanza	sostanza	NOUN	S	obj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
sopravvenute	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inutile	inutile	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inutilizzabile	inutilizzabile	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraenti	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispettivo	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
favoriscono	favorire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinegoziazione	rinegoziazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	VERB	S	det
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	V	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specie	specie	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
esposto	esporre	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interferenze	interferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sopravvenienze	sopravvenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
120	120	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principi	Principi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tassatività	tassatività	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
95	95	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
tassative	tassativo	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrano	integrare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
bandi	bando	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulle	nulle	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
apposte	apposta	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermi	Fermi	ADJ	A	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
introdurre	introdurre	VERB	V	ROOT
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proporzionati	proporzionare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
presente	presente	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
ampio	ampio	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
potenziali	potenziale	ADJ	A	amod
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
favorendo	favorere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
compatibile	compatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
economie	economia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scala	scala	NOUN	S	nmod
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
crescita	crescita	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
micro	micro	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
medie	medio	ADJ	A	conj
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Inadempienze	inadempienza	NOUN	S	ROOT
contributive	contributivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamenti	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
zona	zona	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestatori	prestatore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
comparativamente	comparativamente	ADJ	A	amod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
prevalente	prevalente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
iniziali	iniziale	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrarre	contrarre	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	advcl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
prevalente	prevalente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	conj
I.01	I.01	PROPN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
scorporabili	scorporabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondarie	secondario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accessorie	accessoria	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sussidiarie	sussidiario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
differenti	differente	ADJ	A	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscano	riferire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
omogenea	omogeneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
zona	zona	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestatori	prestatore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
comparativamente	comparativamente	ADJ	A	amod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
differente	differente	ADJ	A	amod
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
garantisca	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
tutele	tutele	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
acquisiscono	acquisiscere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
individuato	individuare	VERB	A	acl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	conj
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
equivalenza	equivalenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutele	tutele	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.01	I.01	PROPN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
tutele	tutele	ADJ	A	amod
normative	normativa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	conj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
garantite	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
subappalto	subappalto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inadempienza	inadempienza	NOUN	S	nmod
contributiva	contributivo	ADJ	A	amod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
contributiva	contributivo	ADJ	A	amod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
subappaltatore	subappaltatore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
subappalti	subappalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cottimi	cottimi	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
trattiene	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inadempienza	inadempienza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assicurativi	assicurativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	conj
edile	edile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
progressivo	progressivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
operata	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ritenuta	ritenuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
0,50	0,50	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
ritenute	ritenuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svincolate	svincolare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
contributiva	contributivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
inadempiente	inadempiente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provvedervi	provvedere vi	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestata	contestare	VERB	V	advcl
formalmente	formalmente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
motivatamente	motivatamente	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
fondatezza	fondatezza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
paga	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
arretrate	arretrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detraendo	detraere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
subappaltatore	subappaltatore	NOUN	S	obl
inadempiente	inadempiente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rinvio	Rinvio	NOUN	SP	amod
esterno	esterno	NOUN	S	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ambito	Ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
esclusi	escludere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
offrano	offrare	VERB	V	advcl
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
guadagno	guadagno	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indiretto	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
straordinarie	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comportino	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
socio	socio	NOUN	S	nmod
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
anticorruzione	anticorruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
europea	europea	ADJ	SP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	csubj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
offrono	offrire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
guadagno	guadagno	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indiretto	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
definizioni	definizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.1	I.1	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
realizzarsi	realizzare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
costruire	costruire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
abilitativo	abilitativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
urbanizzazione	urbanizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
scomputo	scomputo	NOUN	S	nmod
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
edilizia	edilizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1942	1942	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1150	1150	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
I.12	I.12	PROPN	S	compound
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
urbanizzazione	urbanizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
scomputo	scomputo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Soglie	Soglie	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Disciplina	Disciplina	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
misti	misto	NOUN	S	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
5.382.000	5.382.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
140.000	140.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
governative	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
2014/24	2014/24	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
operanti	operanto	ADJ	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
menzionati	menzionato	VERB	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
2014/24	2014/24	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
215.000	215.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
sub	sub	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

questa	questo	DET	DD	det
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
governative	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj
concernono	concernonoo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
menzionati	menzionare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
2014/24	2014/24	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
750.000	750.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assimilati	assimilare	AUX	VA	aux:pass
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
XIV	XIV	ADJ	NO	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
2014/24	2014/24	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
5.382.000	5.382.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
431.000	431.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
1.000.000	1.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assimilati	assimilare	AUX	VA	aux:pass
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
XIV	XIV	ADJ	NO	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
2014/24	2014/24	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
periodicamente	periodicamente	ADV	B	advmod
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
basato	basato	ADJ	A	ROOT
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
pagabile	pagabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresa	compreso	VERB	V	acl
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
opzioni	opzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinnovi	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
esplicitamente	esplicitamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
premi	premio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pagamenti	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composti	comporre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nsubj
operativa	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
distinta	distintare	VERB	V	advcl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
operativa	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
distinta	distinto	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
frazionato	frazionare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
nel	in il	DET	E_RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	obl
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
oggettive	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
giustifichino	giustifichare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
quantificato	quantificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	acl
avvia	avvia	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	ccomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiunto	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottrarre	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevista	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dare	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	A	amod
aggiudicati	aggiudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
distinti	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computato	computare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
totalità	totalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
cumulato	cumulare	VERB	V	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
lotto	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
volto	volgere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	xcomp
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	obj
omogenee	omogeneo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dare	dare	VERB	V	advcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	A	amod
aggiudicati	aggiudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
distinti	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computato	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
totalità	totalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
cumulato	cumulare	VERB	V	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
lotto	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Libro	Libro	NOUN	S	nmod
II	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Parte	Parte	NOUN	S	appos
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lotto	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
80.000	80.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
1.000.000	1.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
cumulato	cumulare	VERB	V	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	obl
aggiudicati	aggiudicato	ADJ	V	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superi	superare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
20	20	NUM	N	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
frazionati	frazionare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
omogenee	omogeneo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rinnovati	rinnovare	VERB	V	xcomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posto	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
analoghi	analogo	PROPN	SP	nmod
conclusi	concludere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rettificato	rettificare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cambiamenti	cambiamento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potrebbero	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sopravvenire	sopravvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
complessivo	complessivo	NOUN	S	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	obj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
riscatto	riscatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
supera	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
residuo	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminata	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definita	definire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
moltiplicato	moltiplicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seconda	seconda	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurativi	assicurativo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
premio	premio	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
bancari	bancario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
onorari	onorario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardanti	riguardante	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	obj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
onorari	onorario	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fissano	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminata	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	appos
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
moltiplicato	moltiplicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
misto	misto	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	ROOT
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prescindendo	prescindere	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
posa	posa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
installazione	installazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
dinamici	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

17	17	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
partenariati	partenariato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
innovazione	innovazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolgeranno	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previsto	previsto	NOUN	S	nmod
partenariato	partenariato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
partenariato	partenariato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

18	18	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
tipi	tipo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
elevato	elevato	ADJ	A	xcomp
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorre	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
misto	misto	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
possedere	possedere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	conj
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

19	19	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggettivamente	oggettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
separabili	separabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
21	21	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggettivamente	oggettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
separabili	separabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

20	20	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	CCONJ	CC	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
rientrano	rientrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
scegliere	scegliere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	xcomp
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
distinti	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
scelgono	scegliere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	xcomp
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
distinti	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	ADJ	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

21	21	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
misti	misto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
pertinente	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

22	22	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

23	23	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggettivamente	oggettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
separabili	separabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	ADJ	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

24	24	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
scegliere	scegliere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	xcomp
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
distinti	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
scelgono	scegliere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	xcomp
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
distinti	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
strumentale	strumentale	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
decidono	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
appalti	appalto	ADJ	A	conj
distinti	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
escludere	escludere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

25	25	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

26	26	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggettivamente	oggettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	csubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
principalmente	principalmente	ADV	B	advmod
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
segue	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiudicato	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altra	altro	PRON	PI	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiudicato	aggiudicare	VERB	V	advcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altra	altro	PRON	PI	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiudicato	aggiudicare	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altra	altro	PRON	PI	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

27	27	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
misti	misto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
misto	misto	ADJ	B	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiudicato	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
disciplinato	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
pertinente	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

28	28	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
misti	misto	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
137	137	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

29	29	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
misti	misto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
nominano	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
nominano	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
preferibilmente	preferibilmente	ADV	B	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
organizzativa	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.2	I.2	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
affidati	affidato	VERB	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inquadramento	inquadramento	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
individuano	individuare	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ordinamenti	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	mark
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Resta	restare	VERB	V	parataxis
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertata	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
carenza	carenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
organico	organico	ADJ	A	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.2	I.2	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzativa	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
nominativo	nominativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferma	Ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unicità	unicità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	advcl
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obj
organizzativi	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
prevedano	prevedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ripartite	ripartire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
svolti	svolto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	ferma	VERB	V	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
supervisione	supervisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nsubj
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolgendo	svolgire	VERB	V	advcl
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.2	I.2	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
istituire	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
destinare	destinare	VERB	V	conj
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
incarichi	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
coerenza	coerenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
piano	piano	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisiti	acquisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
formula	formula	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
formule	formula	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partenariato	partenariato	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
collaudatore	collaudatore	NOUN	S	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	nmod
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partenariato	partenariato	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
privato	privare	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
collegati	collegare	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
aggregazioni	aggregazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
designano	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
specificità	specificità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
gestiti	gestire	VERB	V	acl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obl
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
influenzare	influenzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esiti	esito	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
economico	economico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
percepito	percepire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
imparzialità	imparzialità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
coerenza	coerenza	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
preservare	preservare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzionalità	funzionalità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
percepita	percepito	ADJ	A	nsubj
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imparzialità	imparzialità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
provata	provare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl:agent
invoca	invocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentati	documentato	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riferirsi	riferire si	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
soddisfazione	soddisfazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
conseguibile	conseguibile	ADJ	A	advcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
subordinando	subordinare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
versa	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
astiene	astenere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risolvere	risolvere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	amod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vigilano	vigilare	VERB	V	conj
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettati	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fasi	Fasi	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	nmod
atto	atto	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrarre	contrarre	VERB	V	xcomp
individuando	individuare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessari	necessario	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedere	VERB	V	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedono	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziali	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
concludono	concludono	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.3	I.3	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
silenzio	silenzio	NOUN	S	obj
inadempimento	inadempimento	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	A	nmod
..	..	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
I.3	I.3	ADJ	A	amod
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intercorrere	intercorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invio	invio	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inviti	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
concorrente	concorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vincolante	vincolante	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	obl
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
organo	organo	NOUN	S	nsubj
preposto	preposto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
predispone	predisponere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
migliore	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
anomala	anomala	VERB	B	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
organo	organo	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obj
esamina	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	PC	mark
la	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
verificato	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
equivale	equivalere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
disposta	disposto	ADJ	V	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nmod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivate	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
oggettivamente	oggettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
imprevedibili	imprevedibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
animali	animale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
igiene	igiene	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dedotta	dedotto	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	obl
determinerebbe	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soddisfare	soddisfare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresa	comprendere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanziamenti	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
mai	mai	ADV	B	advmod
giustificare	giustificare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autotutela	autotutela	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
esercitarsi	esercitare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.1	I.1	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
rogante	rogante	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
notarile	notarile	ADJ	A	amod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
negoziata	negoziato	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consistente	consistente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
scambio	scambio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificare	ADJ	A	acl
qualificato	qualificare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
910/2014	910/2014	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
capitolati	capitolato	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
computo	computo	NOUN	S	conj
metrico	metrico	ADJ	S	amod
estimativo	estimativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiamati	richiamare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
integrante	integrante	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Divenuta	Divenuta	VERB	V	advcl
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatto	fare	VERB	V	conj
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autotutela	autotutela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	ROOT
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	nmod
concordato	concordato	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	ADJ	A	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compatibilmente	compatibilmente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sollecita	sollecita	NOUN	S	nmod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
trentadue	trentadue	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultima	ADJ	NO	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dilatorio	dilatorio	ADJ	V	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	conj
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
impugnazioni	impugnazione	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinte	respingere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	amod
basati	basato	NOUN	S	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	amod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
basati	basare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
avverso	avverso	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
contestuale	contestuale	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
incompetente	incompetente	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
pronunciarsi	pronunciare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valevole	valevole	VERB	PR	dep
quale	quale	DET	PR	advmod
implicita	implicire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
constatare	constatare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
silenzio	silenzio	NOUN	S	obj
inadempimento	inadempimento	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sciogliersi	sciogliere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
notificato	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
alcun	alcun	DET	DI	det
indennizzo	indennizzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tardiva	tardivo	ADJ	V	conj
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
risolutiva	risolutivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nmod
negativo	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
laddove	laddove	SCONJ	CS	mark
prevista	previrre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuarsi	effettuare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	advcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.4	I.4	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appaltatore	appaltatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
assolve	assolvere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
tantum	tantum	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
proporzione	proporzione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituite	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1972	1972	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
642	642	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELLA	DELLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
DIGITALIZZAZIONE	DIGITALIZZAZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DEL	DEL	ADP	E_RD	case
CICLO	CICLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
VITA	VITA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	case
CONTRATTI	CONTRATTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod

19	19	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principi	Principi	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
digitalizzazione	digitalizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantiscono	garantire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
neutralità	neutralità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnologica	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
unicità	unicità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
dato	dare	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
banche	banca	NOUN	S	conj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl:agent
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
ricevente	ricevente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
qualvolta	qualvolta	ADV	B	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imposti	imporre	VERB	V	conj
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolti	svolto	VERB	V	ROOT
digitalmente	digitalmente	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
infrastrutturali	infrastrutturale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
gestiti	gestire	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
resi	rendere	VERB	S	conj
fruibili	fruibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
formato	formato	NOUN	S	obl
aperto	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	ADJ	A	amod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
organizzative	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
interni	interno	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
abilitare	abilitare	VERB	V	advcl
automaticamente	automaticamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
banche	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dato	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzative	organizzativo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
presidio	presidio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantendone	garantendonere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
costante	costante	ADJ	A	amod
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
tracciabilità	tracciabilità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolta	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accessibilità	accessibilità	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscibilità	conoscibilità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
decisionali	decisionale	ADJ	A	amod
automatizzati	automatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obj
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
accessibili	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
gestori	gestore	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	NOUN	A	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnica	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	PRON	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
automatizzate	automatizzato	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Parte	Parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Parte	Parte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
statistico	statistico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
locale	locale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
r	r	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principi	Principi	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermi	Fermi	NOUN	S	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
14	14	NUM	N	obl
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interscambio	interscambio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	conj
avvengono	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
unicità	unicità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
articola	articolare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ecosistema	Ecosistema	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
procurement	procurement	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ecosistema	ecosistema	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
procurement	procurement	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
infrastrutturali	infrastrutturale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitanti	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
formato	formato	NOUN	S	nmod
nativo	nativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	NOUN	S	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
formato	formato	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
virtuale	virtuale	ADJ	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT

23	23	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	ROOT
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
articola	articolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
banca	banca	NOUN	S	nsubj
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
collegati	collegare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nsubj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
interoperabile	interoperabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
portale	portale	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
89	89	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
digitalizzazione	digitalizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	conj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50-ter	50-ter	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
basi	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
banche	banca	NOUN	S	conj
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coinvolti	coinvolgere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coinvolti	coinvolgere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
accreditati	accreditare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50-ter	50-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
codice	codice	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accreditarsi	accreditare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50-ter	50-ter	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	conj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sviluppare	sviluppare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
interfacce	interfaccia	NOUN	S	obj
applicative	applicativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	conj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
basi	base	NOUN	S	obj
dati	dato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
guida	guida	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
AGID	AGID	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nsubj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nsubj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
integra	integrare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
house	house	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	conj
dati	dato	VERB	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantiscono	garantire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
abilitanti	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ecosistema	ecosistema	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
realizzata	realizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
resi	rese	ADJ	A	acl
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50-ter	50-ter	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
50-ter	50-ter	PROPN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
omettano	omettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
una	uno	DET	RI	det
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
AGID	AGID	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
sanzionatori	sanzionatore	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
richieste	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	VERB	A	amod
coinvolte	coinvolgere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
transizione	transizione	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18-bis	18-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2005	2005	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ridurre	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obj
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
attuatori	attuatoro	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
finanziamenti	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
investimenti	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
avanzamento	avanzamento	NOUN	S	conj
procedurale	procedurale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
virtuale	virtuale	ADJ	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	Banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
opera	opera	NOUN	S	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
virtuale	virtuale	ADJ	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
95	95	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
esecutori	esecutore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
inserisce	inseriscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
virtuale	virtuale	ADJ	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
virtuale	virtuale	ADJ	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiornati	aggiornare	VERB	V	ROOT
automaticamente	automaticamente	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
95	95	NUM	N	conj
garantiscono	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50;ter	50;ter	NUM	N	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Alle	A il	ADP	E_RD	case
regole	regola	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
opposte	opporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
regolamentano	regolamentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
banche	banca	NOUN	S	obj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
alimentano	alimentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	Banca	NOUN	S	obj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accessibilità	accessibilità	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
virtuale	virtuale	ADJ	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
predisporre	predisporre	VERB	V	ROOT
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obj
aggiornati	aggiornare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
individua	individuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
AGID	AGID	PROPN	SP	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
tipologie	tipologia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
inserire	inserire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
virtuale	virtuale	ADJ	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
esito	esito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	Banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Piattaforme	piattaforme	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interconnessi	interconnesso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interoperanti	interoperante	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	det
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
digitalizzazione	digitalizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
interagiscono	interagire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50-ter	50-ter	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzano	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	obl
tecniche	tecnica	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
alterare	alterare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parità	parità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
distorcere	distorcere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definito	definire	VERB	V	advcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comprovato	comprovato	NOUN	S	nmod
malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
disponendo	disponere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ripristinare	ripristinare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dotati	dotare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
messe	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gestore	gestore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	conj
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26	26	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Regole	Regole	PROPN	SP	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
AGID	AGID	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cybersicurezza	cybersicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
standard	standard	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ecosistema	ecosistema	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
AGID	AGID	PROPN	SP	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	amod
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gestisce	gestire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
certificate	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Pubblicità	Pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
garantita	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazioni	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
85	85	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
costantemente	costantemente	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
siti	sito	NOUN	S	conj
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
costantemente	costantemente	ADV	B	advmod
accessibile	accessibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	Banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	acl
riservati	riservare	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
secretati	secretare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
139	139	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	nmod
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
trasparente	trasparente	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	Banca	NOUN	S	conj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudicatrice	giudicatore	NOUN	A	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
curricula	curricula	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
resoconti	resoconte	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
portale	portale	ADJ	A	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
periodica	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
formato	formato	NOUN	S	nmod
aperto	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
proponente	proponente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bare	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
invitati	invitare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
liquidate	liquidato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29	29	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Regole	Regole	NOUN	S	nmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
automatizzate	automatizzato	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
migliorare	migliorare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
automatizzare	automatizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
ricorrendo	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	obl
tecnologiche	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
incluse	includere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intelligenza	intelligenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
artificiale	artificiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
distribuiti	distribuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	NOUN	S	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	VERB	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
sorgente	sorgente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comprenderne	comprendere ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
logiche	logica	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
introducono	introdurre	VERB	V	ROOT
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gare	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	compound
volte	volgere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
errori	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
indesiderati	indesiderato	ADJ	A	acl
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
automazione	automazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
automazione	automazione	NOUN	S	obl
rispettano	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
conoscibilità	conoscibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comprensibilità	comprensibilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
decisionali	decisionale	ADJ	A	amod
automatizzati	automatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
riguardino	riguardino	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
significative	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
logica	logica	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzata	utilizzato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusività	esclusività	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
algoritmica	algoritmico	ADJ	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
esiste	esistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
decisionale	decisionale	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
umano	umano	ADJ	A	amod
capace	capace	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
controllare	controllare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
validare	validare	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
smentire	smentire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
automatizzata	automatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
discriminazione	discriminazione	VERB	S	ROOT
algoritmica	algoritmico	ADJ	A	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
mette	mettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	ADJ	A	obl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzative	organizzativo	NOUN	S	conj
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
discriminatori	discriminatore	NOUN	S	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzativa	organizzativo	ADJ	A	conj
atta	attare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rettificati	rettificare	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
fattori	fattore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inesattezze	inesattezza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
minimizzato	minimizzare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
errori	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	conj
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
discriminatori	discriminatore	NOUN	S	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	conj
etnica	etnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opinioni	opinione	NOUN	S	obl
politiche	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
religione	religione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convinzioni	convinzione	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	conj
sindacale	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	conj
somatici	somatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
status	status	NOUN	S	conj
genetico	genetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
orientamento	orientamento	NOUN	S	conj
sessuale	sessuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubblicano	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
trasparente	trasparente	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnologiche	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
31	31	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Anagrafe	anagrafe	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
partecipanti	partecipante	ADJ	V	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Anagrafe	Anagrafe	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
coinvolti	coinvolgere	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Anagrafe	Anagrafe	NOUN	S	nsubj
censisce	censire	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cariche	carica	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
riferibili	riferibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Anagrafe	Anagrafe	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
certificativo	certificativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
ruoli	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cariche	carica	NOUN	S	conj
rivestiti	rivestire	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Anagrafe	Anagrafe	PROPN	SP	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resi	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
operanti	operanto	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ecosistema	ecosistema	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
24	24	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
25	25	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	conj
legati	legare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sistemi	Sistemi	PROPN	S	nmod
dinamici	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
così	così	ADV	B	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
generalmente	generalmente	ADV	B	advmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soddisfano	soddisfare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	csubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aperto	aprire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soddisfi	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diviso	dividere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comprendere	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativo	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
ammissibile	ammissibile	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
area	area	NOUN	S	conj
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
ristretta	ristretto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soddisfano	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	nmod
ammessi	ammesso	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitato	limitare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
diviso	dividere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
precisano	precisare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pre	pre	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
d'	di	ADP	E	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	acl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inviato	inviare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
meno	meno	PRON	PI	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
come	come	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usato	usare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
periodico	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
indicativo	indicativo	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	acl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	ROOT
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	VERB	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
pubblicano	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
precisando	precisare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
precisano	precisare	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
stimata	stimato	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	obj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definiscono	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
offrono	offrire	VERB	V	conj
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
libero	libero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
completo	completo	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
valutano	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
motivati	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	acl
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
aggiuntiva	aggiuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
soddisfatti	soddisfare	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
inviato	inviare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prorogare	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prorogato	prorogato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
prorogato	prorogato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
presto	presto	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
meno	meno	ADV	B	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
invitano	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	obj
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
appalto	appalto	VERB	S	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
89	89	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
suddiviso	suddiviso	NOUN	S	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
invitano	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
corrisponde	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	obl
appalto	appalto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
aggiudicano	aggiudicano	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
migliore	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
enunciati	enunciare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pre	pre	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	acl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	ROOT
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
migliore	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
enunciati	enunciare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	acl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
come	come	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
usa	usare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
occorrenza	occorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
precisati	precisare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esigere	esigere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammessi	ammessi	VERB	V	acl
innovino	innovino	NOUN	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aggiornino	aggiornino	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
95	95	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
99	99	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esigere	esigere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammessi	ammessi	VERB	V	acl
innovino	innovino	NOUN	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aggiornino	aggiornino	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
informano	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formulari	formulario	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	advcl
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obj
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
inizialmente	inizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posto	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
termine	termine	NOUN	S	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
163	163	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posti	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Consip	Consip	PROPN	SP	obl
S.p.a	S.p.a	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

,	,	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
predisponendo	predisponere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
organizzativi	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
curando	curare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
488	488	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulati	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	amod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
basati	basare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dilatorio	dilatorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33	33	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Aste	aste	NOUN	S	nmod
elettroniche	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
aste	asta	NOUN	S	obl
elettroniche	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ribasso	ribasso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
taluni	taluno	DET	DI	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
strutturano	strutturare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nsubj
come	come	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
classificarle	classificare le	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
automatico	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
intellettuali	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
classificati	classificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
automatico	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
aste	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettroniche	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
aperte	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ristrette	ristretto	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
competitive	competitivo	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
negoziate	negoziato	ADJ	A	amod
precedute	precedute	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preceduta	precedere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obl:agent
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	appos
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
precisa	preciso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riapertura	riapertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gare	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiudicata	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiudicato	aggiudicare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiudicato	aggiudicare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
miglior	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	compound
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
costo	costo	NOUN	S	conj
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
settori	settore	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
usa	usare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
comprendono	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
saranno	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
quantificabili	quantificabile	ADJ	A	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressi	espresso	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cifre	cifra	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
percentuali	percentuale	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	ROOT
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitolato	capitolato	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messe	mettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messe	mettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	nsubj
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rilanciare	rilanciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
scarti	scarto	NOUN	S	obl
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilancio	rilancio	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	obl
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ponderazione	ponderazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
ammissibile	ammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
95	95	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	obl
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inaccettabile	inaccettabile	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
inadeguata	inadeguato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
ammissibile	ammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	dep
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	obl
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inaccettabile	inaccettabile	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
inadeguata	inadeguato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
irregolari	irregolare	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispettano	rispettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevute	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concussione	concussione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
finalizzato	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
turbare	turbare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
giudicato	giudicare	VERB	V	conj
anormalmente	anormalmente	ADV	B	advmod
basse	basso	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
inaccettabili	inaccettabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possiedono	possiedono	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obj
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
supera	superare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentato	documentare	VERB	V	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un'	uno	DET	RI	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
inadeguata	inadeguare	VERB	V	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	conj
incongruente	incongruente	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sostanziali	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
specificati	specificare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
95	95	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soddisfa	soddisfa	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
ammissibili	ammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
invitati	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
simultaneamente	simultaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	advmod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nsubj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inviti	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredato	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ponderazione	ponderazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	ROOT
precisa	preciso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
formula	formula	NOUN	S	conj
matematica	matematica	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
riclassificazioni	riclassificazione	NOUN	S	conj
automatiche	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e/o	e/o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
presentati	presentare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggiosa	vantaggioso	NOUN	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
formula	formula	NOUN	S	ROOT
integra	integrare	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
ponderazione	ponderazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggiosa	vantaggiosa	NOUN	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	ADP	PR	mark
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
forcelle	forcella	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
espresse	espresse	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	advcl
varianti	variante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
variante	variante	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
formula	formula	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
separata	separato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
loro	loro	PRON	PE	dep
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
altri	altro	ADJ	A	det
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
noto	noto	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
nota	noto	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	nmod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarano	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
conclusa	concludere	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nsubj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	obl
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicato	VERB	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricevono	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rispondono	rispondere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scarti	scarto	NOUN	S	nmod
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rispetteranno	rispettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
conclusa	concluso	ADJ	S	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
raggiunto	raggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ccomp
conclusa	concluso	ADJ	S	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
combinazione	combinazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obl
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
calendario	calendario	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
conclusa	concludere	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
asta	asta	NOUN	S	obj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
aggiudicano	aggiudicano	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34	34	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Cataloghi	Cataloghi	PROPN	SP	nmod
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	ccomp
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
includano	includare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	obj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredate	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
cataloghi	catalogo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
predisposti	predisporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formato	formato	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cataloghi	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiesto	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	VERB	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	acl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pre	pre	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	acl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
negoziare	negoziare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formato	formato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cataloghi	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
riapertura	riapertura	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
avvenga	avvenere	VERB	V	ccomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cataloghi	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiornati	aggiornato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzano	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alternativamente	alternativamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
invitano	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ripresentare	ripresentare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
cataloghi	catalogo	NOUN	S	obj
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adattati	adattare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
raccolte	raccogliere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cataloghi	catalogo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
quadro	quadro	NOUN	A	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riapertura	riapertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
adattate	adattare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
danno	dare	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rifiutare	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
adeguato	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
raccolte	raccogliere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	obl
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contestare	contestare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ccomp
errori	errore	NOUN	S	obj
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
basati	basato	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
richiedendo	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	ccomp
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	amod
basati	basato	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
formato	formato	NOUN	S	conj
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
completato	completare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intenzione	intenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	acl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riservatezza	riservatezzare	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
secretati	secretato	ADJ	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
differito	differire	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	ROOT
aperte	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesima	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
ristrette	ristretto	ADJ	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negoziate	negoziato	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
gare	gara	NOUN	S	conj
informali	informale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
manifestato	manifestare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invitati	invitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinta	respingere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
manifestato	manifestare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nominativi	nominativo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
invitare	invitare	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
95	95	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
98	98	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	PD	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anomalia	anomalia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	conj
riferiti	riferire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detta	detto	ADJ	A	amod
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resi	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accessibili	accessibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conoscibili	conoscibile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
326	326	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
secretati	secretato	ADJ	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	conj
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
giustificazione	giustificazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscano	costituiscare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
motivata	motivata	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comprovata	comprovare	ADJ	V	conj
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
risultanti	risultare	NOUN	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
scoperte	scoperta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
innovazioni	innovazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	conj
tutelati	tutelare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
altamente	altamente	ADV	B	advmod
tecnologico	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pareri	parere	NOUN	S	obl
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
liti	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
potenziali	potenziale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
riservate	riservato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organo	organo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
esecutore	esecutore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	conj
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
coperte	copertire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
privativa	privativa	ADJ	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrente	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentati	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
virtuale	virtuale	ADJ	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
196	196	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
36	36	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
procedimentali	procedimentale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tema	tema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
risultato	risultato	NOUN	A	amod
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
presupposti	presupporre	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resi	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
candidati	candidato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitivamente	definitivamente	ADV	B	advmod
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	acl
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
collocatisi	collocatidere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
posti	posto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
graduatoria	graduatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resi	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
reciprocamente	reciprocamente	ADV	B	advmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
piattaforma	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
presentate	presentare	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	acl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
oscuramento	oscuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabili	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
notificato	notificato	ADJ	A	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
intimate	intimato	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
perfezionamento	perfezionamento	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	acl
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
insussistenti	insussistente	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ostensione	ostensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oscuramento	oscuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltrare	inoltrare	VERB	V	ROOT
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
irrogare	irrogare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	ADV	B	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
reiterati	reiterare	VERB	V	advcl
rigetti	rigetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
oscuramento	oscuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2010	2010	NUM	N	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
deciso	decidere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
semplificata	semplificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicarsi	pubblicarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consistere	consistere	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mero	mero	ADJ	A	amod
richiamo	richiamo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
argomentazioni	argomentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritti	scritto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
inteso	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accogliere	accogliere	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
aggiudicataria	aggiudicataria	NOUN	S	obl
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	SP	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELLA	DELLA	DET	E_RD	det
PROGRAMMAZIONE	PROGRAMMAZIONE	PROPN	SP	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
37	37	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	VERB	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obj
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	conj
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
approvati	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
programmatori	programmatore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
coerenza	coerenza	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	conj
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
approvano	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obj
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
avviare	avviare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specifica	specificare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fonte	fonte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stanziata	stanziare	VERB	V	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
aggiornamenti	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
complessi	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	conj
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
partenariato	partenariato	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
privato	privato	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
stima	stimare	VERB	V	advcl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alternative	alternativa	NOUN	S	nmod
progettuali	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alternative	alternativa	NOUN	S	nmod
progettuali	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
aggiornamenti	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
aggiornamenti	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	conj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	compound
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pianificazione	pianificazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.5	I.5	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
schemi	schema	NOUN	S	nsubj
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprensivi	comprensivo	NOUN	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
incompiute	incompiuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
programmati	programmato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avviati	avviato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
specificazione	specificazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
raccordo	raccordo	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pianificazione	pianificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
delegare	delegare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38	38	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Localizzazione	Localizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
statali	statale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
regolano	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionario	concessionario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pianificazione	pianificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
urbanistica	urbanistico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	conj
edilizia	edilizio	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	SP	amod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
interessanti	interessante	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedente	VERB	A	amod
convoca	convocare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
localizzazione	localizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
semplificata	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14-bis	14-bis	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obj
incisi	incisi	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
preposte	preporre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	conj
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
paesaggio	paesaggio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Provveditorato	Provveditorato	NOUN	S	nsubj
interregionale	interregionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
agire	agire	VERB	V	ROOT
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1990	1990	NUM	N	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espressione	espressione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	appos
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedente	VERB	V	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	S	conj
Provveditorato	Provveditorato	PROPN	SP	nmod
interregionale	interregionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
espressione	espressione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suolo	suolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rigenerazione	rigenerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
urbana	urbano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Provveditorato	Provveditorato	NOUN	S	conj
interregionale	interregionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ravvisa	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
carenze	carenza	NOUN	S	xcomp
ostative	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigenerazione	rigenerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
urbana	urbano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
restituisce	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Provveditorato	Provveditorato	NOUN	S	conj
interregionale	interregionale	ADJ	A	amod
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
modificato	modificato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrato	integrare	VERB	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorsi	Decorsi	VERB	V	advcl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
reso	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorsi	Decorsi	VERB	V	ROOT
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Provveditorato	Provveditorato	NOUN	S	conj
interregionale	interregionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituito	restituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Provveditorato	Provveditorato	PROPN	SP	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
modificato	modificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedente	VERB	V	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Provveditorato	Provveditorato	NOUN	S	conj
interregionale	interregionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedente	VERB	V	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assoggettabilità	assoggettabilità	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
VIA	VIA	ADJ	NO	conj
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preminenti	preminente	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appaltabilità	appaltabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
certezza	certezza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
risultanze	risultanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoggettabilità	assoggettabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredate	corredare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
emerga	emergere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologica	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoggettabilità	assoggettabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
emerga	emerga	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soprintendente	soprintendente	VERB	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.8	I.8	NUM	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cronoprogramma	cronoprogramma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esiti	esito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inchiesta	inchiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
conclude	concludere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prorogabile	prorogabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
preposte	preporre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14-quinquies	14-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1990	1990	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
espresse	esprettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	DET	DD	conj
assenti	assente	NOUN	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dissenso	dissenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riferito	riferire	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
conclusiva	conclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approva	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
perfeziona	perfezionare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
urbanistico	urbanistico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
edilizio	edilizio	ADJ	A	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
localizzazione	localizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
urbanistica	urbanistico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
paesaggistica	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interferenze	interferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
mitigatrici	mitigatrice	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
compensatrici	compensatrico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
localizzazione	localizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
variante	variante	VERB	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
urbanistici	urbanistice	ADJ	A	amod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoggettabilità	assoggettabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
abilitativi	abilitativo	ADJ	A	amod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indifferibilità	indifferibilità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	conj
preordinato	preordinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esproprio	esproprio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
approvato	approvato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1990	1990	NUM	N	nmod
tengono	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
partecipativa	partecipativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
327	327	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2001	2001	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
salvaguardia	salvaguardia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aree	area	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
fasce	fascia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
edilizi	edilizio	ADJ	A	amod
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
localizzazione	localizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
coinvolte	coinvolgere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14-bis	14-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1990	1990	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dissenso	dissenso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
completo	completo	ADJ	A	conj
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
limitarsi	limitare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
esprimere	esprimere	VERB	V	xcomp
contrarietà	contrarietà	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
mitigatrici	mitigatrice	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rendano	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
compatibile	compatibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutandone	valutandone	NOUN	S	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
profili	profilo	NOUN	S	obj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
determinate	determinare	VERB	DI	ROOT
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proporzionalità	proporzionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostenibilità	sostenibilità	NOUN	S	conj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	ADJ	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
deroghe	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
partecipanti	partecipante	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incluse	includere	VERB	V	advcl
quelle	quello	PRON	DD	nsubj:pass
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
urbanistica	urbanistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paesaggistica	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
archeologica	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	conj
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
pendenti	pendente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obj
conclusiva	conclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguenti	conseguente	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
validi	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nsubj
attesti	attestare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	conj
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paesaggistica	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
urbanistica	urbanistico	ADJ	A	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
i	il	DET	RD	det
pareri	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
erano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
vizi	vizio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pareri	parere	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39	39	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
strategiche	strategico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
preminente	preminente	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pianificazione	pianificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
strategiche	strategico	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riveste	riverre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
preminente	preminente	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modernizzazione	modernizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Nazione	nazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nsubj
qualifica	qualificare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
infrastruttura	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	obj
come	come	ADP	E	case
strategica	strategico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
preminente	preminente	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
delibera	delibera	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rendimento	rendimento	NOUN	S	nmod
infrastrutturale	infrastrutturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
operata	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiornato	aggiornato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denominato	denominare	VERB	V	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Documento	documento	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
strategiche	strategico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
DPIS	DPIS	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rendimento	rendimento	NOUN	S	nmod
attesi	attendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
infrastrutturale	infrastrutturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riequilibrio	riequilibrio	VERB	V	conj
socio	socio	NOUN	S	xcomp
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aree	area	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sostenibilità	sostenibilità	NOUN	S	conj
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
strategica	strategico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenimento	contenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
energetico	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strategia	strategia	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rete	rete	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esiti	esito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alternative	alternativa	NOUN	S	nmod
progettuali	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
stimati	stimato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
stanziamenti	stanziamente	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cronoprogramma	cronoprogramma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
automaticamente	automaticamente	ADV	B	advmod
inseriti	inserire	VERB	S	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armonizzazione	armonizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
incluse	incluse	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotti	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
prorogabili	prorogabile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituisce	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	obj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economico	economico	ADJ	A	conj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	B	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
soprintendenza	soprintendenza	NOUN	S	obl
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
risultanze	risultanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoggettabilità	assoggettabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dissensi	dissenso	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14-quinquies	14-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
CIPESS	CIPESS	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
integrato	integrare	VERB	V	advcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidenti	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	NOUN	SP	nsubj:pass
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
approva	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
produce	produrre	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insediamenti	insediamento	NOUN	S	conj
prioritari	prioritario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
repressione	repressione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tentativi	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
infiltrazione	infiltrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mafiosa	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attuato	attuare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
presieduto	presiedere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Prefetto	prefetto	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
approvate	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
delibera	delibera	NOUN	S	obl
CIPESS	CIPESS	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
continuano	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicarsi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
40	40	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.6	I.6	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	V	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
indire	indire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ravvisi	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	conj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantendone	garantendone	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
celerità	celerità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
apre	aprire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
alternative	alternativa	NOUN	S	nmod
progettuali	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
statali	statale	ADJ	A	amod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
portatori	portatore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
diffusi	diffuso	ADJ	A	amod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comitati	comitato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
statutari	statutare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
conclude	concludere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
compatibile	compatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
celerità	celerità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redatta	redavere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
pervenute	pervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
meritevoli	meritevole	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
conclusiva	conclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esiti	esito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprese	ADJ	B	amod
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elaborazione	elaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
afferente	afferere	VERB	V	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
finanziati	finanziare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
PNRR	PNRR	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Piano	piano	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
investimenti	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
PNRR	PNRR	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
PNC	PNC	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
I.6	I.6	ADJ	A	nmod
disciplina	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
conclusiva	conclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

DELLA	DELLA	DET	E_RD	amod
PROGETTAZIONE	PROGETTAZIONE	VERB	A	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
41	41	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Livelli	Livelli	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
articola	articolare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
approfondimenti	approfondimente	ADJ	A	amod
tecnici	tecnico	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	conj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
volta	volgere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soddisfacimento	soddisfacimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbisogni	fabbisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collettività	collettività	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
urbanistiche	urbanistico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
paesaggistici	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rispondenza	rispondenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
architettonica	architettonico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
funzionale	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
esistenti	esistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
idrogeologici	idrogeologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sismici	sismico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
archeologici	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficientamento	efficientamento	NOUN	S	conj
energetico	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
minimizzazione	minimizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rinnovabili	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostenibilità	sostenibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
contrastare	contrastare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suolo	suolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incentivando	incentivare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
riuso	riuso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
valorizzazione	valorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
edilizio	edilizio	ADJ	A	amod
esistente	esistere	VERB	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tessuti	tessuto	NOUN	S	conj
urbani	urbano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
razionalizzazione	razionalizzazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
connesse	connesso	ADJ	A	conj
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	amod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
progressivo	progressivo	ADJ	A	amod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accessibilità	accessibilità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adattabilità	adattabilità	NOUN	S	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
barriere	barriera	NOUN	S	nmod
architettoniche	architettonico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	DET	NO	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
compatibilità	compatibilità	NOUN	S	ROOT
geologica	geologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
geomorfologica	geomorfologico	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
I.7	I.7	PROPN	SP	compound
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
predisporre	predisporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
..	..	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
I.7	I.7	PROPN	SP	compound
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
I.7	I.7	ADJ	SP	compound
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
capitolato	capitolato	NOUN	S	obj
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
coordinatore	coordinatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.9	I.9	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
allegato	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimensione	dimensione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elaborati	elaborato	NOUN	S	conj
progettuali	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
straordinaria	straordinario	ADJ	A	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
omesso	omedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
contenga	contengare	VERB	V	acl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
omesso	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
straordinaria	straordinario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
straordinaria	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
strutturali	strutturale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	acl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
elaborati	elaborato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.7	I.7	PROPN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prescindere	prescindere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
individua	individuare	ADJ	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	obl
possibili	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
migliore	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
collettività	collettività	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	NOUN	S	nmod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	compound
da	da	ADP	E	mark
soddisfare	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
richiami	richiamo	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sviluppa	sviluppare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
studi	studio	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj
dimensionali	dimensionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipologiche	tipologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnologiche	tecnologico	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
suddivisione	suddivisione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
espropriativa	espropriativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	conj
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
approvazioni	approvazione	NOUN	S	conj
prescritte	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
piano	piano	NOUN	S	obj
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
-	-	X	X	nmod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recepisce	recepire	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
sviluppati	sviluppare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
perseguimento	perseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
progettuale	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
definiti	definire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitolato	capitolato	NOUN	S	obl
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
coerenza	coerenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sviluppa	sviluppare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
tale	tale	DET	DD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
individuarne	individuare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
compiutamente	compiutamente	NOUN	S	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredato	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
determina	determinare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
dettaglio	dettaglio	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
costo	costo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sviluppa	sviluppare	VERB	V	parataxis
un	uno	DET	RI	det
approfondimento	approfondimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
coerenza	coerenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rispondente	rispondente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
specificato	specificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitolato	capitolato	NOUN	S	obl
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
predisposto	predisposto	VERB	V	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
motivate	motivato	ADJ	A	obl
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
giustifichino	giustifichare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
disgiunto	disgiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
progettista	progettista	NOUN	S	nsubj
accetta	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
progettuale	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
esterno	esterno	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stipulati	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	obl
espresse	espresse	ADJ	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
reintegrative	reintegrativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
transattivo	transattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
progettista	progettista	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rimediare	rimediare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
errori	errore	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
emerse	emerse	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tali	tale	PRON	PD	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pregiudicare	pregiudicare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
futura	futuro	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
patto	patto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
escluda	escludo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettista	progettista	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
errori	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
pregiudichino	pregiudichino	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
futura	futuro	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
esterno	esterno	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrambi	entrambi	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condizionato	condizionare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coerenza	coerenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
varie	vario	ADJ	A	amod
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	conj
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattito	dibattito	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaudi	collaudo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piani	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specialistiche	specialistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gravano	gravare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obl
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inclusi	includere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sopralluoghi	sopralluogo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
predisposizione	predisposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
accentrato	accentrato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
manutenzioni	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritte	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
capitoli	capitolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasferite	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
demanio	demanio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
articolata	articolare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
predisposta	predisporre	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
I.7	I.7	PROPN	SP	compound
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
costo	costo	NOUN	S	conj
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
tabelle	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica|politico	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrattazione	contrattazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
collettiva	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
comparativamente	comparativamente	ADJ	A	amod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimensione	dimensione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
natura	natura	NOUN	S	conj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
previdenziale	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenziale	assistenziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
merceologici	merceologice	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenti	differente	ADJ	A	amod
aree	area	NOUN	S	conj
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
merceologico	merceologico	ADJ	A	amod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
affine	affine	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
preso	prendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavorazioni	lavorazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	ADJ	V	ROOT
facendo	fare	VERB	V	advcl
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
riportati	riportare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
prezzari	prezzario	ADJ	A	obl
aggiornati	aggiornato	VERB	B	acl
predisposti	predisporre	VERB	V	acl
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obj
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

In	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
I.14	I.14	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogato	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
parere	parere	NOUN	S	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Istituto	Istituto	PROPN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
statistica	statistica	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ISTAT	ISTAT	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prezzari	prezzario	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiornati	aggiornato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
facendo	fare	VERB	V	advcl
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
listini	listino	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiali	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
listini	listino	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
camere	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	amod
individua	individuo	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
manodopera	manodopera	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
manodopera	manodopera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scorporati	scorporare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
assoggettato	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ribasso	ribasso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	nsubj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ribasso	ribasso	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
efficiente	efficiente	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
aziendale	aziendale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.13	I.13	PROPN	SP	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispettivi	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
progettuali	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commisurati	commisurare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
qualitativo	qualitativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarichi	incarico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	conj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

..	..	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15-bis	15-bis	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
corrispettivi	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.13	I.13	PROPN	SP	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedere	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprensivo	comprensivo	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissi	fisso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
variabili	variabile	ADJ	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
procedono	procede	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	nmod
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggiosa	vantaggioso	NOUN	S	amod
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
miglior	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	compound
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	compound
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
65	65	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
assume	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
fisso	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
restante	restante	VERB	S	nsubj:pass
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettato	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ribasso	ribasso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
punteggio	punteggio	NOUN	S	obj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obl
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.13	I.13	ADJ	A	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tetto	tetto	NOUN	S	obj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
punteggio	punteggio	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
15-ter	15-ter	PROPN	SP	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Restano	Restano	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ferme	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
anomale	anomale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
15-quater	15-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
corrispettivi	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.13	I.13	PROPN	SP	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotti	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
percentuale	percentuale	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
42	42	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Verifica	Verifica	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedente	VERB	V	amod
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rispondenza	rispondenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
espresse	espresso	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
congiunto	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partenariato	partenariato	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
privato	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
completata	completare	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
coerenza	coerenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
diverse	diverso	DET	DI	det
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
segue	seguire	VERB	V	parataxis
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	obj
parallelamente	parallelamente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantendo	garantere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
progettista	progettista	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
incompatibile	incompatibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
accerta	accerto	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
impartite	impartire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	advcl
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obj
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assolve	assolvere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
zone	zona	NOUN	S	nmod
sismiche	sismico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genio	genio	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corredati	corredare	NOUN	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuta	NOUN	A	nmod
positiva	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
interoperabile	interoperabile	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Archivio	Archivio	PROPN	SP	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
validazione	validazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esiti	esito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
validazione	validazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
preciso	preciso	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusivo	conclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
preposto	preposto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
controdeduzioni	controdeduzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettista	progettista	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
bando	bando	VERB	V	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
validazione	validazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
I.7	I.7	ADJ	A	compound
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispondenza	rispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elaborati	elaborato	NOUN	S	nmod
progettuali	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricompresi	ricomprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
stanziate	stanziato	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
43	43	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Metodi	Metodi	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
stima	stima	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
presunto	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
edifici	edificio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2004	2004	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
straordinaria	straordinario	ADJ	A	conj
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riguardino	riguardare	VERB	V	ccomp
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obj
precedentemente	precedentemento	ADV	B	advmod
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l	L	DET	RD	det
'	'	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
prevedendo	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
punteggio	punteggio	NOUN	S	obj
premiale	premiale	ADJ	A	amod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.9	I.9	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
utilizzano	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
piattaforme	piattaforma	NOUN	S	obj
interoperabili	interoperabile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
formati	formato	NOUN	S	nmod
aperti	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
proprietari	proprietario	NOUN	S	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
coinvolgimento	coinvolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	amod
progettualità	progettualità	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
progettisti	progettisto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
partecipanti	partecipante	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
aggiudicatari	aggiudicatare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.9	I.9	NOUN	SP	compound
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
uniformità	uniformità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;)	;)	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresa	compreso	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anagrafe	anagrafe	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
archivio	archivio	ADJ	A	amod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rendicontazione	rendicontazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
investimenti	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obl
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitolato	capitolato	NOUN	S	nmod
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l	L	DET	RD	det
'	'	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44	44	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
integrato	integrato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrarre	contrarre	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
qualificati	qualificare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	obj
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedente	VERB	V	amod
motiva	motivo	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
scostamenti	scostamente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
contrattualmente	contrattualmente	ADJ	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
possedere	possedere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
progettisti	progettisto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettisti	progettisto	NOUN	S	obl
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
raggruppamento	raggruppamento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	V	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
modellazione	modellazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggiosa	vantaggiosa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
miglior	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	compound
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
distintamente	distintamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
corrispettivo	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	obj
richiesto	richiesto	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
iniziare	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalga	avvalgare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	nmod
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettista	progettista	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	obl
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ribasso	ribasso	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progettista	progettista	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
45	45	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incentivi	Incentivi	NOUN	SP	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.10	I.10	PROPN	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stanziamenti	stanziamente	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilanci	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	ADJ	NO	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

31	31	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2024	2024	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
209	209	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
destinano	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
specificate	specificare	VERB	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.10	I.10	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
valere	valere	VERB	V	xcomp
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stanziamenti	stanziamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
80	80	NUM	N	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ripartito	ripartire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
collaboratori	collaboratore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comprensivi	comprensivo	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
riparto	riparto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
connesse	connere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
incrementi	incremento	NOUN	S	nmod
ingiustificati	ingiustificare	VERB	V	acl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
ordinamenti	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
corrisposto	corrisposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
preposto	preposto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	conj
incaricato	incaricare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accerta	accertare	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
corrisposto	corrisposto	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dirigenziale	dirigenziale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
onnicomprensività	onnicomprensività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
analoghe	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
ordinamenti	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazioni	Amministrazioni	NOUN	SP	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
erogano	erogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incentivi	incentivo	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dirigenziale	dirigenziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compatibilità	compatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-bis	40-bis	NUM	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	xcomp
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
corrisposti	corrisposta	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	A	nsubj:pass
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
maturato	maturare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
lordo	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
percepito	percepire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
..	..	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	A	amod
eccedente	eccedente	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
corrisposto	corrisposto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incrementa	incrementare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
adottano	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentato	aumentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Incrementa	Incrementa	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
corrisponde	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
affidate	affidare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
esterno	esterno	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
prive	privo	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
20	20	NUM	N	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
finanziamenti	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obl
europei	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
finanziamenti	finanziamento	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
vincolata	vincolato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incrementato	incrementare	VERB	V	acl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
parti	parte	NOUN	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondenti	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prive	privo	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
corrisposto	corrisposto	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	conj
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
innovazione	innovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
incentivare	incentivare	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
modellazione	modellazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
edilizia	edilizia	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
implementazione	implementazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
miglioramento	miglioramento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficientamento	efficientamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metodologie	metodologia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumentazioni	strumentazione	NOUN	S	conj
elettroniche	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
utilizzata	utilizzato	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incremento	incremento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
digitali	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
specializzazione	specializzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
destinare	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
eccedere	eccedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
25	25	NUM	N	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incentivo	incentivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Concorsi	Concorsi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
piani	piano	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
approfondimento	approfondimento	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
bandire	bandire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
selezionate	selezionare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ideative	ideativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seconda	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
elaborato	elaborare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
selezionate	selezionato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardi	riguardo	ADJ	A	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ideativa	ideativo	ADJ	A	amod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
premio	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
acquistano	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
vincitore	vincitore	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
bando	bando	VERB	V	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	ccomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
negoziata	negoziare	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	V	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincitore	vincitore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincitori	vincitore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
premi	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pagamenti	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potrebbe	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivo	ADV	B	advmod
aggiudicato	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idee	idea	NOUN	S	nmod
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ideativa	ideativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
remunerare	remunerare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
congruo	congruo	ADJ	A	amod
premio	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
subordinati	subordinato	NOUN	S	amod
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
iscritti	iscritto	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	V	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
bandisce	bandire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
idea	idea	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
idee	idea	NOUN	S	conj
premiate	premiato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assetti	assetto	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
poste	porre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
premiati	premiato	NOUN	S	nsubj
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
organo	organo	NOUN	S	ROOT
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

opera	opera	NOUN	S	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dotato	dotare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	obl
funzionale	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzativa	organizzativo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presieduto	presiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Assemblea	assemblea	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
Sezioni	Sezioni	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Segreteria	Segreteria	PROPN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Osservatorio	Osservatorio	PROPN	SP	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prerogative	prerogativa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
città	città	NOUN	S	conj
metropolitane	metropolitano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
consultive	consultiva	NOUN	S	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	conj
pareri	parere	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatori	obbligatore	NOUN	S	obj
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionari	concessionario	NOUN	S	conj
statali	statale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
finanziate	finanziare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
50	50	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pareri	parere	NOUN	S	conj
facoltativi	facoltativo	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alternative	alternativa	NOUN	S	nmod
progettuali	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
pluriennali	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministeri	ministere	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
pareri	parere	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resi	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
lineari	lineare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
Comitati	comitato	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnici	tecnico	NOUN	A	amod
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Provveditorati	Provveditorati	NOUN	SP	nmod
interregionali	interregionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
esprimono	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
parere	parere	VERB	S	obj
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionari	concessionario	NOUN	S	conj
statali	statale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
finanziate	finanziare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
50	50	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
lineari	lineare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionari	concessionario	NOUN	S	conj
statali	statale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
finanziate	finanziare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
50per	50per	NUM	A	nummod
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	csubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.11	I.11	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	advcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
reso	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

LIBRO	LIBRO	NOUN	S	det
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELL'	DELL'	DET	S	amod
APPALTO	APPALTO	PROPN	V_PC	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	S	ROOT
I	il	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	case
CONTRATTI	CONTRATTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
IMPORTO	IMPORTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
INFERIORE	INFERIORE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ALLE	ALLE	PROPN	E_RD	case
SOGLIE	SOGLIE	PROPN	SP	nmod

EUROPEE	EUROPEE	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
48	48	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disciplina	Disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Parti	Parti	PROPN	S	conj
I	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
II	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
accerta	accertare	ADJ	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
transfrontaliero	transfrontaliero	ADJ	A	amod
certo	certo	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
segue	seguire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parti	parti	NOUN	S	nmod
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Libro	Libro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
fermi	fermo	VERB	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenimento	contenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
derogate	derogare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Parte	Parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rotazione	rotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Parte	Parte	NOUN	S	obl
avvengono	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rotazione	rotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rotazione	rotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
uscente	uscente	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
consecutivi	consecutivo	NOUN	A	nsubj
affidamenti	affidamento	ADJ	A	amod
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
commessa	commessa	NOUN	S	obj
rientrante	rientrante	ADV	B	advmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
merceologico	merceologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	B	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ripartire	ripartire	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
fasce	fascia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
fascia	fascia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
motivati	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alternative	alternativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accurata	accurato	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
resa	reso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
uscente	uscente	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reinvitato	reinvitare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	conj
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	obl
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rotazione	rotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	advcl
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesti	richierre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
invitare	invitare	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
negoziata	negoziato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
derogare	derogare	VERB	V	csubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rotazione	rotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
50	50	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedure	procedure	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
63	63	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
procedono	procede	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
150.000	150.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assicurando	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	ccomp
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentate	documentato	ADJ	A	amod
esperienze	esperienza	NOUN	S	nmod
pregresse	pregresso	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
albi	albi	VERB	V	conj
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
140.000	140.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assicurando	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	ccomp
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentate	documentato	ADJ	A	amod
esperienze	esperienza	NOUN	S	nmod
pregresse	pregresso	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
albi	albi	VERB	V	conj
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
negoziata	negoziare	VERB	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
bando	bare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
150.000	150.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
negoziata	negoziare	VERB	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
bando	bare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Libro	Libro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
negoziata	negoziare	VERB	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
bando	bare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
140.000	140.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
gestiti	gestire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
II.1	II.1	PROPN	SP	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
invitare	invitare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
negoziate	negoziato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sorteggio	sorteggio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
casuale	casuale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nominativi	nominativo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	conj
motivate	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
praticabile	praticabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicano	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
nominativi	nominativo	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
consultati	consultare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicano	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
procedono	procede	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggiosa	vantaggioso	NOUN	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
basso	basso	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rientranti	rientrante	VERB	S	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
146	146	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obj
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
transfrontaliero	transfrontaliero	ADJ	A	amod
certo	certo	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
141	141	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obj
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	B	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
anticipata	anticipato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinati	ordinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Parte	Parte	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sostituire	sostituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
regolare	regolare	VERB	V	acl
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
regolare	regolare	VERB	V	acl
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ultimazione	ultimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
bandi	bando	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pre	pre	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Parte	Parte	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
85	85	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazioni	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
invitati	invitato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
51	51	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudicatrice	giudicatore	NOUN	S	compound


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Parte	Parte	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggiosa	vantaggioso	NOUN	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
giudicatrice	giudicatore	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
52	52	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
40.000	40.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
attestano	attestare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notorietà	notorietà	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	conj
richiesti	richiedere	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
sorteggio	sorteggio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
campione	campione	NOUN	S	nmod
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
predeterminate	predeterminare	VERB	V	acl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
confermato	confermare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	conj
dichiarati	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	B	amod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
escussione	escussione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
indette	indette	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
53	53	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Garanzie	Garanzie	PROPN	SP	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
corredo	corredo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
definitive	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
provvisorie	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
salvo	salvo	ADV	A	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specificità	specificità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	dep
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
giustifichino	giustifichare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrarre	contrarre	VERB	V	acl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fideiussione	fideiussione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
debitamente	debitamente	ADV	B	advmod
motivati	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Parte	Parte	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
valere	valere	VERB	V	xcomp
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obl
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
54	54	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esclusione	Esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
automatica	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
anomale	anomale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
basso	basso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
transfrontaliero	transfrontaliero	ADJ	A	amod
certo	certo	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	appos
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obj
automatica	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anomale	anomale	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
ammesse	ammesso	VERB	V	advcl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
congruità	congruità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
appaia	appaia	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
anormalmente	anormalmente	ADV	B	advmod
bassa	basso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
anomale	anomale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scelto	scegliere	VERB	V	acl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
descritti	descrivere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
II.2	II.2	PROPN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
selezionano	selezionare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
sorteggio	sorteggio	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	obl
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
II.2	II.2	PROPN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
55	55	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	nmod
dilatori	dilatorio	NOUN	S	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dilatori	dilatorio	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	SP	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEGLI	DEGLI	PROPN	SP	case
ISTITUTI	ISTITUTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
DELLE	DELLE	ADP	E_RD	case
CLAUSOLE	CLAUSOLE	PROPN	SP	conj
COMUNI	COMUNI	PROPN	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
56	56	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Appalti	Appalti	PROPN	SP	nmod
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
beneficiano	beneficiano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
virtù	virtù	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicate	pubblicare	VERB	V	amod
che	che	SCONJ	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
permettere	permettere	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltanti	appaltare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
messa	messa	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reti	rete	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
telecomunicazioni	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
elettroniche	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
definizioni	definizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
rete	rete	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
elettroniche	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	nmod
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
259	259	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
organizzare	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
:	:	PUNCT	FC	obl:agent

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
crea	creare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattati	trattato	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	conj
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
articolazioni	articolazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riguardanti	riguardante	NOUN	S	conj
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
firmatari	firmatario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
aggiudicano	aggiudicano	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	conj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
finanziati	finanziare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
finanziati	finanziare	VERB	S	acl
prevalentemente	prevalentemente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	conj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
accordano	accordano	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	advcl
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
terreni	terreno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	conj
esistenti	esistere	VERB	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
coproduzione	coproduzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
associati	associato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
media	media	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisivi	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
radiofonici	radiofonico	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
media	media	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisivi	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
radiofonici	radiofonico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
media	media	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisivi	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
radiofonici	radiofonico	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cliente	cliente	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1.1	1.1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	conj
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conciliativa	conciliativo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1.2	1.2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
giurisdizionali	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	conj
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
giurisdizionali	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituzioni	istituzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indizio	indizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
probabilità	probabilità	NOUN	S	conj
elevata	elevato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
verte	vertere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
divenga	divengare	VERB	V	ccomp
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestati	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
notai	notae	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
prestati	prestare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fiduciari	fiduciare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutori	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
organo	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designati	designare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
giurisdizionali	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
occasionalmente	occasionalmente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	DET	NO	det
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
riportati	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	obl:agent
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
concluse	concludere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stabilità	stabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
meccanismo	meccanismo	NOUN	S	conj
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stabilità	stabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
l	L	X	PC	det
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prestiti	prestito	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescindere	prescindere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
correlati	correlare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	NOUN	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
n	n	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
pericoli	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
identificati	identificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
codici	codico	NOUN	S	obl
CPV	CPV	PROPN	SP	nmod
75250000	75250000	NUM	N	flat:name
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
75251000	75251000	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
0	0	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
75251100	75251100	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
75251110	75251110	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
75251120	75251120	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
75252000	75252000	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
75222000	75222000	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct
98113100	98113100	NUM	N	flat:name
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
85143000	85143000	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	compound
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pazienti	paziente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ambulanza	ambulanza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
n	n	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	obl
forzate	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
precedente	precedente	VERB	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
correlate	correlata	NOUN	S	amod
cabine	cabina	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proiettili	proiettile	ADJ	S	amod
sparati	sparato	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
serramenti	serramento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vetri	vetro	NOUN	S	conj
blindati	blindato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
elmetti	elmette	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giubbotti	giubbotto	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autoblindo	autoblire	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
furgoni	furgone	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
simili	simile	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricambi	ricambi	NOUN	S	obl
afferenti	afferentio	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
n	n	X	X	discourse
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
afferenti	afferentare	VERB	A	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
n	n	NOUN	S	compound
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;)	;)	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
passeggeri	passeggero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ferrovia	ferrovia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
metropolitana	metropolitano	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

p	p	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	ROOT
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
campagne	campagna	NOUN	S	obl
politiche	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
identificati	identificare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
codici	codico	NOUN	S	obl
CPV	CPV	PROPN	SP	nmod
79341400	79341400	NUM	N	flat:name
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
0	0	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
92111230	92111230	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
92111240	92111240	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
partito	partito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
campagna	campagna	NOUN	S	nmod
elettorale	elettorale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
q	q	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
annui	annuare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associate	associato	VERB	A	conj
situate	situare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl
classificati	classificare	VERB	V	acl
totalmente	totalmente	ADV	B	advmod
montani	montano	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
predisposto	predisporre	VERB	V	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISTAT	ISTAT	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricompresi	ricomprese	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolare	circolare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
supplemento	supplemento	NOUN	S	obl
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
141	141	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
isole	isola	NOUN	S	nmod
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	nmod
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	flat:name
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
448	448	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
stipuli	stipulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privare	ADJ	A	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
impegni	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
ottenimento	ottenimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
lotto	lotto	NOUN	S	conj
funzionale	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
urbanistici	urbanistice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
95	95	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
98	98	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
57	57	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Clausole	Clausole	PROPN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bandi	bando	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inviti	invito	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostenibilità	sostenibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
energetica	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
inseriscono	inseriscere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bandi	bando	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inviti	invito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	parataxis
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	obj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richieste	richiesta	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
orientate	orientare	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
a	a	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	csubj
le	il	DET	RD	det
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	obj
generazionali	generazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
inclusione	inclusione	NOUN	S	conj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
svantaggiate	svantaggiare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stabilità	stabilità	NOUN	S	obj
occupazionale	occupazionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegato	impiegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
paesaggio	paesaggio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

garantire	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
contribuiscono	contribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivi	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Piano	piano	NOUN	S	obl:agent
d'	di	ADP	E	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostenibilità	sostenibilità	NOUN	S	obl
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
progettuale	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	conj
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	NOUN	S	obl
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
differenziati	differenziare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	B	advmod
tecnicamente	tecnicamente	ADV	B	advmod
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
energetica	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ristorazione	ristorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
collettiva	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
derrate	derrata	NOUN	S	nmod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
specificamente	specificamere	ADJ	A	acl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
130	130	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
premianti	premiante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesura	stesura	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggiosa	vantaggiosa	NOUN	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
valorizzano	valorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
riferite	riferire	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ristrutturazione	ristrutturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inclusi	includere	VERB	V	conj
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
comportanti	comportanto	ADJ	A	amod
demolizione	demolizione	NOUN	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
localizzazione	localizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguati	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
energetica	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
II.3	II.3	ADJ	A	amod
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
meccanismi	meccanismo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
premiali	premiale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	obj
generazionali	generazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inclusione	inclusione	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
svantaggiate	svantaggiato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
58	58	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Suddivisione	suddivisione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
micro	micro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medie	medio	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prossimità	prossimità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
suddivisi	suddividere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	obl
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prestazionali	prestazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
specializzazioni	specializzazione	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
motivano	motire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
suddivisione	suddivisione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
europei	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
paritarie	paritaria	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
medie	medio	ADJ	A	conj
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
suddivisione	suddivisione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adeguato	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
microimprese	microimpresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
medie	medio	ADJ	A	conj
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
qualitativa	qualitativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quantitativa	quantitativa	ADJ	A	conj
concretamenteseguiti	concretamenteseguire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddivisione	suddivisione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	aux
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
artificioso	artificioso	ADJ	A	amod
accorpamento	accorpamento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
concorrente	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
connesse	connesso	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
versino	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2359	2359	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ove	ove	SCONJ	B	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elevato	elevato	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
atteso	atteso	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitato	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	csubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
bando	bando	NOUN	V	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
discriminatorio	discriminatorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lotto	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrente	concorrente	NOUN	S	obl
utilmente	utilmente	ADV	B	advmod
collocato	collocare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
bando	bando	VERB	V	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
riservare	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
alcuni	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	conj
associati	associare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
comparativa	comparativo	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
59	59	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
concludere	concludere	VERB	V	ROOT
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
debitamente	debitamente	ADV	B	advmod
motivati	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
contrarre	contrarre	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbisogni	fabbisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
contrarre	contrarre	VERB	V	acl
indica	indico	ADJ	V	xcomp
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
percentuali	percentuale	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
remuneratività	remuneratività	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
attuativi	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
stimato	stimare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	B	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eludere	eludere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distorcere	distorcere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	advmod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ottenimento	ottenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
migliorative	migliorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ammissibile	ammissibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj
consequenziale	consequenziale	ADJ	A	amod
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obj
sostanziali	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	amod
basati	basato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
indizione	indizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
selezionati	selezionare	VERB	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
apportarsi	apportarsi	VERB	A	ROOT
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
sostanziali	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiudicati	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consultare	consultare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	obj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
chiedendogli	chiedendogli	VERB	V_PC	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
completare	completare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
riaprire	riaprire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obj
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	amod
contenga	contengare	VERB	V	advcl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
oggettive	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
quale	quale	ADV	CS	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuerà	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettuerà	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	nmod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riaprendo	riaprere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obj
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sussistendo	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riapertura	riapertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riapertura	riapertura	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
oggettivi	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
stabiliscono	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quali	quale	DET	DQ	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riapertura	riapertura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
lotto	lotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nsubj
competitivi	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
basano	basare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
precisandole	precisandole	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
consulta	consultare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	xcomp
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
aggiudica	aggiudico	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
migliore	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
attuativi	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
preservare	preservare	VERB	V	csubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	obj
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	conj
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ripristinarlo	ripristinare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rinegoziazione	rinegoziazione	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
oggettiva	oggettiva	ADJ	V	advcl
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
attuativi	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
preservare	preservare	VERB	V	csubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	obj
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	conj
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ripristinarlo	ripristinare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rinegoziazione	rinegoziazione	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
oggettiva	oggettiva	ADJ	V	advcl
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appaltatore	appaltatore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
invocarne	invocare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
eccessiva	eccessivo	ADJ	A	amod
onerosità	onerosità	NOUN	S	nmod
sopravvenuta	sopravvenire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	advcl
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
60	60	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	compound


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
iniziali	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	compound


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
riferite	riferire	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Queste	questo	DET	DD	det
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
apportano	apportare	VERB	V	ROOT
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
alterino	alterare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

si	si	PRON	PC	expl
attivano	attivare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
oggettiva	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
3	3	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
90	90	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
applicata	applicare	VERB	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
80	80	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
applicata	applicare	VERB	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
inserire	inserire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
meccanismi	meccanismo	NOUN	S	conj
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indice	indice	NOUN	S	nmod
inflattivo	inflattivo	ADJ	A	amod
convenzionalmente	convenzionalmente	ADJ	A	amod
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incremento	incremento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
virtù	virtù	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
meccanismi	meccanismo	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivazione	attivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
prezzi	prezzo	ADJ	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
utilizzano	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
indici	indice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sintetici	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
indici	indice	NOUN	S	conj
sintetici	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-quater	4-quater	NUM	N	nummod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	flat
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
indici	indice	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disaggregati	disaggregato	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
indici	indice	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disaggregati	disaggregato	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
orarie	orario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ISTAT	ISTAT	PROPN	SP	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
indici	indice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavorazioni	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipologie	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
omogenee	omogeneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
A	A	PROPN	SP	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
II.2-bis	II.2-bis	PROPN	SP	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indici	indice	NOUN	S	nmod
sintetici	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-quater	4-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
indici	indice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
metodologia	metodologia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
portale	portale	NOUN	S	nmod
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISTAT	ISTAT	PROPN	SP	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
normative	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
statistica	statistico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
indici	indice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
indici	indice	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	xcomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
indicizzazione	indicizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-quater	4-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
II.2-bis	II.2-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
disciplina	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	conj
merceologico	merceologico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indici	indice	NOUN	S	conj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
specifica	specificare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
subappalto	subappalto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	advcl
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	obl
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzano	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limite	limite	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
appositamente	appositamente	ADV	B	advmod
accantonate	accantonare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
imprevisti	imprevista	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impegni	impegno	NOUN	S	obl
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
assunti	assumere	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stanziate	stanziare	VERB	V	conj
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
ribassi	ribasso	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
ultimati	ultimato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
collaudi	collaudo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
emessi	emesso	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
regolare	regolare	VERB	V	acl
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
residua	residuo	ADJ	S	nmod
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	compound
autorizzata	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
61	61	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Contratti	Contratti	PROPN	SP	nmod
riservati	riservato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riservare	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riservarne	riservare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nsubj
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	appos
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
svantaggiate	svantaggiato	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riservarne	riservare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
protetti	proteggere	VERB	V	acl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composto	comporre	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
svantaggiati	svantaggiato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riservare	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riservarne	riservare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
medie	medio	ADJ	A	conj
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
bando	bando	VERB	V	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pre	pre	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
danno	dare	VERB	S	ROOT
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
atto	atto	ADJ	A	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
riservati	riservato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	obl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
svantaggiate	svantaggiato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ex	ex	ADJ	A	amod
degenti	degente	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
ospedali	ospedale	NOUN	S	nmod
psichiatrici	psichiatrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
psichiatrico	psichiatrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
tossicodipendenti	tossicodipendente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
alcolisti	alcolista	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	appos
detenute	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internate	internare	VERB	V	conj
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
penitenziari	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
condannati	condannato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
internati	internato	NOUN	S	conj
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
alternative	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esterno	esterno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
354	354	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	SP	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
SOGGETTI	SOGGETTI	PROPN	SP	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanti	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
62	62	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Aggregazioni	Aggregazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
centralizzazione	centralizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
committenze	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermi	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenimento	contenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
500.000	500.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
valere	valere	VERB	V	xcomp
su	su	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
gare	gara	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
qualificate	qualificare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	conj
II.4	II.4	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
gare	gara	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
identificativo	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CIG	CIG	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disciplina	disciplinare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incentivi	incentivo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
premianti	premiante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
integrato	integrare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzative	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	amod
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
regime	regime	NOUN	S	conj
sanzionatorio	sanzionatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
disciplinare	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
appaltanti	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
posseduti	posseduti	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gare	gara	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ausiliaria	ausiliario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	nmod
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
posseduti	posseduti	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
preliminare	preliminare	VERB	A	amod
preferenza	preferenza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
bene	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soddisfacimento	soddisfacimento	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
fabbisogno	fabbisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenienza	convenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
agire	agire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedono	procede	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
ricorrendo	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	B	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
centrale	centrale	ADJ	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ausiliaria	ausiliario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedono	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	nmod
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
preliminare	preliminare	VERB	A	amod
preferenza	preferenza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
bene	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soddisfacimento	soddisfacimento	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
fabbisogno	fabbisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenienza	convenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
agire	agire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
qualificate	qualificato	VERB	A	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
qualificate	qualificare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	parataxis
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
affidataria	affidataria	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
ricorrendo	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	V	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazioni	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
posseduti	posseduti	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
:))	:))	PUNCT	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
progettano	progettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiudicano	aggiudicano	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stipulano	stipulano	VERB	V	conj
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
progettano	progettano	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiudicano	aggiudicano	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stipulano	stipulano	VERB	V	conj
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
progettano	progettano	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiudicano	aggiudicano	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stipulano	stipulare	VERB	V	conj
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aderire	aderire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
istituiscono	istituiscere	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gestiscono	gestisce	VERB	V	conj
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
dinamici	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mercati	mercato	NOUN	S	conj
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
II.4	II.4	PROPN	SP	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
integrato	integrare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiti	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sussidiarietà	sussidiarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
differenziazione	differenziazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
adeguatezza	adeguatezza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formalizzato	formalizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermi	Fermi	NOUN	S	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	conj
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl:agent
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
attivare	attivare	VERB	V	ROOT
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aderire	aderire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
restanti	restante	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collocazione	collocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
consultano	consultare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rivolta	rivolgere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
accolta	accolto	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	obj
negativa	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
negativa	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	V	ROOT

si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rivolge	rivolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fasce	fascia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Eventuali	Eventuali	ADJ	A	amod
inadempienze	inadempienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sanzionate	sanzionare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
posseduti	posseduti	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ausiliarie	ausiliario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltare	VERB	V	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
convertito	convertito	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
89	89	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ausiliarie	ausiliario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
z	z	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punto	punto	NOUN	S	conj
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.1	I.1	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
prestatori	prestatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
imputabili	imputabile	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	PRON	PR	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
gestito	gestire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riapertura	riapertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
competitivo	competitivo	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
svolgerà	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
compito	compito	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ausiliaria	ausiliaria	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
centralizzazione	centralizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esse	esse	PRON	PE	nsubj
nominano	nominano	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
cura	curare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
raccordi	raccordo	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
beneficiaria	beneficiario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Due	due	NUM	N	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	advmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	PRON	N	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
qualificata	qualificare	VERB	V	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esse	esse	PRON	PE	nsubj
nominano	nominano	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
delegata	delegato	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	B	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
unicamente	unico	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	dep
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
conto	conto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermi	Fermi	NOUN	S	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenimento	contenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ubicata	ubicato	ADJ	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
procedono	procede	VERB	V	ccomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	appos
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ubicata	ubicato	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
centralizzazione	centralizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
committenze	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
centralizzata	centralizzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
centralizzazione	centralizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
committenze	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ubicata	ubicato	ADJ	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ubicata	ubicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

17	17	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esclusivi	esclusivo	ADJ	A	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
146	146	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
152	152	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
aggiudicatori	aggiudicatore	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
aggiudicatrici	aggiudicatrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
II.4	II.4	PROPN	SP	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ambiti	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partenariato	partenariato	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
privato	privare	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolti	svogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
qualificati	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
63	63	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualificazione	Qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ccomp
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soddisfi	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
II.4	II.4	PROPN	SP	nmod
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritta	iscrivere	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
articola	articolare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
fasce	fascia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
base	base	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
750.000	750.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
intermedia	intermedio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
avanzata	avanzato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
livello	livello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
corrispondenti	corrispondere	ADJ	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
posseduto	possedere	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
Provveditorati	Provveditorati	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interregionali	interregionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Consip	Consip	PROPN	SP	appos
S.p.a	S.p.a	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Invitalia	Invitalia	PROPN	SP	ROOT
-Agenzia	-Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attrazione	attrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
investimenti	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
S.p.a	S.p.a	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	ROOT
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	compound
S.p	S.p	ADP	E_RD	amod
.	.	PUNCT	S	punct

A.	A.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
demanio	demanio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
aggregatori	aggregatore	ADJ	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
89	89	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Sport	Sport	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
S.p.a	S.p.a	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
Soprintendenze	Soprintendenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
Archeologia	Archeologia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
belle	bello	ADJ	A	amod
arti	arte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
paesaggio	paesaggio	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
unioni	unione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
città	città	NOUN	S	conj
metropolitane	metropolitano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	ADJ	S	amod
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Eventuali	Eventuali	NOUN	A	amod
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
caratterizzano	caratterizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
bene	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
ambiti	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
incluso	includere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
messa	messa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
qualificate	qualificare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Allegato	Allegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
II.4	II.4	PROPN	SP	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
qualificate	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
programmano	programmare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
leale	leale	ADJ	A	amod
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
II.4	II.4	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attengono	attengono	VERB	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consistenza	consistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
umane	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
incluso	includere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclutamento	reclutamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	nmod
maturata	maturare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
II.4	II.4	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
articolazioni	articolazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
danno	dare	VERB	V	conj
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
propedeutico	propedeutico	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accreditamento	accreditamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
formative	formativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procedendo	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
campione	campione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenti	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accreditamento	accreditamento	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertata	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
carenza	carenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comprovare	comprovare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ricorrendo	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
artifizi	artifizio	NOUN	S	obl
tali	tali	PRON	PD	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eluderne	eludere ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
accertati	accertato	NOUN	S	nmod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
irrogare	irrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	conj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuta	ottenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Costituiscono	Costituiscono	VERB	V	ROOT
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
dolosamente	dolosamente	ADV	B	advmod
tese	tese	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistenti	sussistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprese	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarata	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nsubj
continui	continuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarata	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzativa	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
impegnato	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
viene	venire	VERB	V	advcl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
portate	portare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
II.4	II.4	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciando	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obj
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finalizzata	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrale	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
ausiliarie	ausiliario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzativa	organizzativo	ADJ	A	conj
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
64	64	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Appalti	Appalti	NOUN	SP	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
coinvolgono	coinvolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rivolgersi	rivolgere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ubicate	ubicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ubicate	ubicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct
Amministrazioni	Amministrazioni	NOUN	S	nsubj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
aggiudicare	aggiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concludere	concludere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
quadro	quadro	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gestire	gestire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
dinamico	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinino	determinino	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	ROOT
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	obj
comprendendo	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	obj
europei	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1082/2006	1082/2006	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	amod
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabiliscono	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	ADJ	S	amod
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applichino	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
applicarsi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitati	limitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuni	alcuno	DET	DI	det
tipi	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
aggiudicazioni	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	ROOT
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Operatori	Operatori	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammessi	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
l	l	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I.1	I.1	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Rientrano	Rientrano	NOUN	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
imprenditori	imprenditore	NOUN	S	obl
individuali	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
artigiani	artigiano	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
cooperative	cooperativo	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabili	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
consortili	consortile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2615-ter	2615-ter	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
imprenditori	imprenditore	NOUN	S	nmod
individuali	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
artigiani	artigiano	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
cooperative	cooperativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabili	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formati	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
meno	meno	PRON	PI	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
consorziati	consorziato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
assunta	assunta	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
deliberativi	deliberativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
congiunto	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituendo	istituere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
raggruppamenti	raggruppamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiti	costituito	NOUN	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituendi	costituende	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	conj
mandato	mandare	VERB	V	xcomp
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
mandatario	mandatario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	conj
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandanti	mandanto	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
imporre	imporre	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportino	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posa	posa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
installazione	installazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	conj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
incaricate	incaricato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esigere	esigere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
taluni	taluno	DET	DI	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
svolti	svogliere	VERB	V	ccomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerente	offerente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
66	66	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Operatori	Operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammessi	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
assunta	assunto	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prestatori	prestatore	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	nsubj
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
associati	associato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
GEIE	GEIE	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
raggruppamenti	raggruppamento	NOUN	S	appos
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
committenti	committente	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
operando	operare	VERB	V	dep
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
studi	studio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
connesse	connere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restauro	restauro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
superfici	superfice	NOUN	S	conj
decorate	decorato	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
architettonici	architettonico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
restauratore	restauratore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigente	vigente	ADJ	S	amod
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
archeologi	archeologio	NOUN	S	conj
professionisti	professionista	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
associati	associato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
costituite	costituito	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	obl
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	amod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
albi	albo	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
ordinamenti	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capi	capi	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
III	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
cooperativa	cooperativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	Capo	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	flat:name
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
committenti	committente	NOUN	S	obl
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
quali	quale	DET	DQ	det
studi	studio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consulenze	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
progettazioni	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
direzioni	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
congruità	congruità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
studi	studio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
società	società	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
capitali	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capi	capi	PROPN	SP	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
VII	VII	ADJ	NO	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
cooperative	cooperativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	Capo	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	flat:name
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
studi	studio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consulenze	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
progettazioni	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
direzioni	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
congruità	congruità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
studi	studio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
connesse	connere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prestatori	prestatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
identificati	identificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
codici	codico	NOUN	S	obl
CPV	CPV	PROPN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
74200000	74200000	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	compound
a	a	ADP	E	case
74276400;8	74276400;8	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
74310000	74310000	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	compound
a	a	ADP	E	case
74323100	74323100	NUM	N	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
0	0	NUM	N	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
74874000	74874000	NUM	N	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	appos
abilitati	abilitare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
offrire	offrire	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
par	par	DET	DI	det
condicio	condicio	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
raggruppamenti	raggruppamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
costituiti	costituito	NOUN	S	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

a	a	X	E	case
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	ROOT
stabili	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
mista	misto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
meno	meno	PRON	PI	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
consorziati	consorziato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
operato	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
possedere	possedere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
II.12	II.12	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
documentare	documentare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzativi	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soci	socio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
cooperativa	cooperativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttori	direttore	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	conj
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
capitali	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
allegato	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
67	67	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Consorzi	Consorzi	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
II.12	II.12	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
):	):	PUNCT	S	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computati	computare	VERB	V	ccomp
cumulativamente	cumulativamente	NOUN	S	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
consorziate	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	nsubj
esegua	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
designare	designare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obj
esecutrici	esecutrice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	PRON	PP	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computati	computare	VERB	V	advcl
cumulativamente	cumulativamente	NOUN	S	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
consorziate	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	nsubj
esegua	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
consorziate	consorziata	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comprovati	comprovare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultime	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	PRON	PP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
avvalimento	avvalimento	NOUN	S	dep
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
66	66	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
95	95	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorziate	consorziata	NOUN	S	obl
esecutrici	esecutrice	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorziate	consorziata	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prestano	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
abilitativi	abilitativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorziato	consorziato	NOUN	S	conj
esecutore	esecutore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabili	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
consorziate	consorziata	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	conj
subappalto	subappalto	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
solidale	solidale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
consorziate	consorziata	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
subappalto	subappalto	VERB	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quali	quale	PRON	DQ	obl
consorziate	consorziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	obj
concorre	concorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
consorziata	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
designata	designata	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
volta	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anch'	anche	ADV	B	advmod
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
consorziate	consorziata	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
concorre	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorziate	consorziata	NOUN	S	nmod
designate	designato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
offerente	offerente	ADJ	A	amod
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
integrati	integrare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	A	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
influito	influire	VERB	V	ccomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
incidere	incidere	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rispettare	rispettare	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
97	97	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
artigiane	artigiano	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	advcl
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
95	95	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
propri	proprio	ADJ	AP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
novero	novero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facendo	fare	VERB	V	advcl
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organico	organico	NOUN	S	conj
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorziate	consorziata	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
II.12	II.12	PROPN	SP	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	obl
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
consorziati	consorziato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorziati	consorziato	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
pro	pro	NOUN	S	xcomp
quota	quota	NOUN	S	flat:foreign
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzativi	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
maturati	maturare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorziati	consorziato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
proporzionali	proporzionale	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apporto	apporto	NOUN	S	obl
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
consorziati	consorziare	VERB	S	obl:agent
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvalimento	avvalimento	NOUN	S	nmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
maturati	maturare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	PRON	PP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
specifica	specifico	ADJ	V	xcomp
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
SOA	SOA	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consorzio	consorzio	NOUN	S	obl
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
SOA	SOA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comprovati	comprovare	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualificazioni	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
possedute	possedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
consorziate	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
specialistiche	specialistico	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
possedute	possedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
consorziate	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
illimitato	illimitato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
consorziate	consorziare	VERB	V	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
possieda	possiedere	VERB	V	advcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
consorziate	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
ve	ve	PRON	PC	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
siano	essere	VERB	V	cop
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
VII	VII	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
consorziate	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
ve	ve	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fruizione	fruizione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
meccanismi	meccanismo	NOUN	S	nmod
premiali	premiale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
consorziate	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
classifiche	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
consorziate	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
coincida	coincidare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
classifiche	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
II.12	II.12	PROPN	SP	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	obl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	PD	conj
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
classifiche	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
possedute	possedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
consorziate	consorziato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seconda	seconda	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
collochi	collocare	VERB	V	advcl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
sopra	sopra	ADV	B	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervallo	intervallo	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
classifiche	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
efficaci	efficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	appos
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
incarichi	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
connesse	connere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
anticorruzione	anticorruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabili	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
unicamente	unico	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
identificativo	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CIG	CIG	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunti	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
avverso	avverso	ADP	V	acl
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
impugnati	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposti	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunti	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2022	2022	NUM	N	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
bandi	bando	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
indice	indire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	advmod
lesivi	lesivo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
85	85	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2022	2022	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinato	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
mancata	mancato	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bare	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
house	house	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
partecipato	partecipato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
controllato	controllare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
visionabili	visionabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
presupposti	presupposta	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
omessi	omessi	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADV	E	advmod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2022	2022	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentato	rappresentare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Avvocatura	Avvocatura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatività	operatività	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
compatibilmente	compatibilmente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	conj
definito	definito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	B	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
definito	definire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
semplificata	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	ADJ	A	amod
posta	posta	ADJ	A	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificato	ADJ	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttorie	istruttorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
integrare	integrare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rinviata	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	ADJ	A	amod
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
approfondimenti	approfondimente	ADJ	A	amod
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnati	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunti	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
unificato	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
derivino	derivinare	VERB	E	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
irreversibili	irreversibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
subordinare	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
fideiussione	fideiussione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
commisurato	commisurare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalto	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
0,5	0,5	NUM	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinata	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
122	122	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
imperative	imperativo	ADJ	A	amod
connesse	connere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	VERB	S	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	compound
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deposita	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stesura	stesura	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
complessa	complesso	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
pubblica	pubblicare	VERB	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
accolte	accolgere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
darvi	dare vi	VERB	V_PC	advcl
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
10	10	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
innanzi	innanzi	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
proposto	proporre	ADJ	V	acl
avverso	avverso	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avverso	avverso	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obj
avverso	avverso	NOUN	S	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenerne	ottenere ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
offerte	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	advmod
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
cumulativo	cumulativo	ADJ	A	amod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
dedotti	dedotto	VERB	PI	advcl
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
avverso	avverso	ADP	V	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
annulla	annullere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
bando	bare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
indice	indire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2022	2022	NUM	N	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
negoziata	negoziare	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
bando	bare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
indice	indire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2022	2022	NUM	N	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
rispettare	rispettare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
dilatorio	dilatorio	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2022	2022	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
impedito	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiungendosi	aggiungere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
vizi	vizio	NOUN	S	obl
propri	proprio	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
influito	influire	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
rispettare	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	nmod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
avverso	avverso	ADP	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2022	2022	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiungendosi	aggiungere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
vizi	vizio	NOUN	S	obl
propri	proprio	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
influito	influire	VERB	V	conj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
precisa	preciso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
declaratoria	declaratoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
opera	operare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
retroattiva	retroattivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
imperative	imperativo	ADJ	A	amod
connesse	connere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
imponga	imponga	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuti	mantenuti	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
imperative	imperativo	ADJ	A	amod
rientrano	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
imprescindibili	imprescindibile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tali	tale	PRON	PD	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	acl
evidente	evidente	ADJ	A	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
residui	residuo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	compound
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettati	rispettare	VERB	V	ccomp
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecutore	esecutore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
come	come	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
imperative	imperativo	ADJ	A	amod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
condurrebbe	condurre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
sproporzionate	sproporzionato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
subentro	subentro	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
vizio	vizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rinnovare	rinnovare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
imperative	imperativo	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
legati	legare	VERB	V	acl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comprendono	comprendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indire	indire	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cambio	cambio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesse	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
-Dipartimento	-Dipartimento	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	obl
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonostante	nonostante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
temporalmente	temporalmente	ADV	B	advmod
limitata	limitare	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alternative	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
123	123	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
seguito	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
indice	indire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	appos
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2022	2022	NUM	N	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	conj
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
volontario	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2022	2022	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
manifesta	manifestare	VERB	S	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intenzione	intenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
concludere	concludere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dello	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadere	scadere	VERB	V	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
123	123	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alinea	alineo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	PC	det
parole:«di	parole:«di	NOUN	V	dep
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituite	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tutela	tutelare	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
condizionato	condizionare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
subito	subito	ADJ	B	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provato	provare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obj
risarcitorie	risarcitorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivalsa	rivalsa	NOUN	A	nmod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	compound
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	B	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	ccomp
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
illegittimo	illegittimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	nmod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
subentrare	subentrare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1227	1227	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
danneggiante	danneggiante	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
formulare	formulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
risarcitoria	risarcitorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
formulazione	formulazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnato	assegnare	ADJ	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
significativa	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
liquidato	liquidare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ottemperanza	ottemperanza	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
valutativi	valutativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamentazione	regolamentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lite	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.Lgs	d.Lgs	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2024	2024	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
209	209	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
209	209	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
apportate	apportare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	ADJ	S	nmod
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	ROOT
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	conj
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
ricorrano	ricorrano	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soppresse	soppresso	ADJ	A	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
rimedi	rimedio	NOUN	S	ROOT
alternativi	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
210	210	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Libro	Libro	NOUN	S	nmod
II	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedere	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionari	concessionare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
variare	variare	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
15	15	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reiterato	reiterare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	nsubj
iscritte	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	S	case
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
esaminate	esaminare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
raggiungano	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
pretese	pretendere	VERB	V	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
quantificati	quantificare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obl
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
progettuali	progettuale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
regolare	regolare	VERB	V	acl
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualunque	qualunque	DET	PI	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nsubj
attiva	attivare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritte	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	rUP	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmettendo	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
breve	breve	ADJ	A	amod
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
riservata	riservato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nsubj
valuta	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissibilità	ammissibilità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	conj
infondatezza	infondatezza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
limite	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
riservata	riservato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organo	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	obl
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lista	lista	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formulato	formulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
scelgono	scegliere	VERB	V	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lista	lista	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	appos
incaricato	incaricare	VERB	A	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formulazione	formulazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formulato	formulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lista	lista	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prendendo	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
V.1	V.1	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
formulata	formulare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
richieda	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
formulata	formulare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formulate	formulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
audizioni	audizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istruiscono	istruiscere	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formulano	formulare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonee	idoneo	NOUN	S	nmod
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	compound
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formulato	formulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	ROOT
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redavere	VERB	V	conj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	xcomp
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	ROOT
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
transazione	transazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sessantesimo	sessantesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formulato	formulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
inutile	inutile	ADJ	A	amod
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aditi	adire	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
211	211	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	ROOT
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
210	210	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
continuativa	continuativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
periodica	periodico	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
insorgano	insorgano	VERB	V	advcl
controversie	controversio	NOUN	S	obj
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esatta	esatto	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
212	212	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Transazione	Transazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
risolte	risogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
transazione	transazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
esperire	esperire	VERB	V	csubj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
rimedi	rimedio	NOUN	S	obj
alternativi	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
200.000	200.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Avvocatura	Avvocatura	NOUN	SP	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
sub	sub	NOUN	S	compound
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
legale	legale	NOUN	S	conj
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legale	legale	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionario	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
elevato	elevato	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
transazione	transazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formulata	formulare	VERB	V	ROOT
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	amod
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	ADJ	A	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
transazione	transazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
forma	forma	NOUN	V	ROOT
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
213	213	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Arbitrato	Arbitrato	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
su	su	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
idee	idea	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
210	210	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
211	211	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deferite	deferire	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
controllata	controllato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
collegata	collegare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2359	2359	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
finanziate	finanziare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilanci	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	VERB	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
indice	indire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nsubj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	dep
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
bando	bare	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
conterrà	conterre	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
meno	meno	ADV	B	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
clausola	clausola	NOUN	S	obj
compromissoria	compromissorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiudicatario	aggiudicatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rifiutare	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
clausola	clausola	NOUN	S	obj
compromissoria	compromissorio	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
clausola	clausola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
compromissoria	compromissorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compromettere	compromettere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
lite	lite	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
clausola	clausola	NOUN	S	nsubj
compromissoria	compromissorio	ADJ	A	amod
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bando	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indetta	indettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	dep
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
bando	bare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
clausola	clausola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organo	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiudicatrice	aggiudicatrice	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composto	comporre	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designa	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designato	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provata	provato	ADJ	A	amod
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rotazione	rotazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	ROOT
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contabili	contabile	ADJ	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
militari	militare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
procuratori	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
biennio	biennio	NOUN	S	conj
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrali	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
riposo	riposo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
trattato	trattare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
penale	penale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
militare	militare	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	conj
proposti	proporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
parere	parere	VERB	V	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
predisposto	predisposto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
capitolato	capitolato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
resi	rendere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
pareri	parero	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sorvegliato	sorvegliare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
collaudato	collaudare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arbitrato	arbitrare	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitrato	arbitrare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
controdeduzioni	controdeduzione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	obl
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
trasmesse	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
designazioni	designazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuarsi	effettuare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispettivo	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
nomina	nomino	ADJ	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
segretario	segretario	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
scegliendolo	scegliendolo	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
arbitrali	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ammissibili	ammissibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
allegazioni	allegazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
istruttorie	istruttorio	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
perentori	perentore	NOUN	S	xcomp
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nsubj
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	VA	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diviene	divenire	VERB	V	conj
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corrisposta	corrisposta	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	appos
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Detto	dire	ADP	A	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
versato	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
precede	precedere	VERB	V	ROOT
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuarsi	effettuare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
825	825	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Camera	Camera	PROPN	SP	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tanti	tanto	DET	DI	det
originali	originale	NOUN	S	obl
quante	quanto	DET	PQ	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematiche	telematico	ADV	B	conj
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispettivo	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
originale	originale	ADJ	A	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituito	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
825	825	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
proponibile	proponibile	ADJ	A	conj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	A	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sospendere	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fondati	fondato	VERB	V	conj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
351	351	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
conferma	confermare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
verifica	verifica	NOUN	SP	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	advcl
precisare	precisare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nsubj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
camera	camera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
pronunzia	pronunzio	ADJ	A	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-sexies	281-sexies	NUM	N	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	amod
incombenti	incombente	ADJ	A	amod
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
V.1	V.1	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
214	214	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	conj
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
albo	albo	ADJ	A	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segretari	segretario	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	nsubj
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
cura	curare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redige	redigere	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
deontologico	deontologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
organi	organo	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
dotati	dotare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dotati	dotare	VERB	V	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
onorabilità	onorabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
sceglie	scegliere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	Presidente	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
durata	durare	NOUN	V	ROOT
quinquennale	quinquennale	ADJ	A	xcomp
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
retribuito	retribuire	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	case
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
l	l	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
iscritti	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
espletare	espletare	VERB	V	ROOT
incarichi	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrali	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
decisi	decidere	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	nsubj
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Camera	camera	NOUN	S	nsubj
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
cura	curare	VERB	V	ROOT
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
rilevazione	rilevazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
emergenti	emergente	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	SP	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
221	221	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	ROOT
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contabili	contabile	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
militari	militare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
riposo	riposo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	obl
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	A	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albi	albo	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	conj
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
magistrature	magistratura	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
consigliere	consigliere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cassazione	Cassazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tecnici	tecnico	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diploma	diploma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
laurea	laurea	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ingegneria	ingegneria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
architettura	architettura	NOUN	S	conj
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
iscritti	iscritto	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
albi	albo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
professori	professore	NOUN	S	obl
universitari	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quiescenza	quiescenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provata	provato	ADJ	A	amod
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrati	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
definiti	definire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vicende	vicenda	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
nominativi	nominativo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periti	perito	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periti	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuta	ottenuto	ADJ	V	conj
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	csubj
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
triennio	triennio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatti	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
815	815	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periti	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segretari	segretario	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
V.1	V.1	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
215	215	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Collegio	Collegio	PROPN	SP	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
rapida	rapido	ADJ	A	amod
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispute	disputo	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnica	ADJ	A	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
insorgere	insorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formato	formare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
V.2	V.2	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incluse	includere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
realizzate	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
partenariato	partenariato	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
mediazione	mediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
finalizzata	finalizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
migliore	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
celere	celere	VERB	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
arte	arte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pareri	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
inadempimento	inadempimento	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
causa	causa	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
dolosa	doloso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
216	216	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pareri	Pareri	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	conj
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
variante	variante	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disputa	disputa	NOUN	A	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
insorga	insorgo	VERB	A	acl:relcl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
concorde	concorde	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
convengono	convengere	VERB	V	advcl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	ccomp
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
808-ter	808-ter	NUM	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
preclusa	precluso	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esperibilità	esperibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
bonario	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
designato	designato	VERB	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
risolvere	risolvere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	advmod
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economici	economico	ADJ	A	conj
rendano	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
preferibile	preferibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
valuta	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
avvalendosi	avvalendoso	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
interpellare	interpellare	VERB	V	ROOT
progressivamente	progressivamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originaria	originario	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
risultanti	risultante	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
graduatoria	graduatorio	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tecnicamente	tecnicamente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	conj
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
proposte	proposta	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
interpellato	interpellato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
indire	indire	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imposta	imporre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
idonee	idoneere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
incidere	incidere	VERB	V	xcomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
arte	arte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potrebbe	potere	AUX	VM	aux
determinarla	determinare la	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
accerta	accertare	ADJ	A	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indica	indicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
apportare	apportare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
arte	arte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espresso	ADV	B	advmod
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
217	217	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
217	217	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazioni	Determinazioni	PROPN	SP	obl
facoltative	facoltativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	conj
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
808-ter	808-ter	NUM	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insediamento	insediamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	advcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disposto	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
assuma	assumare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escludono	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	obl
contrattuale	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
facoltativa	facoltativo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
215	215	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
218	218	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
facoltativa	facoltativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedenti	concedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
RUP	RUP	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
V.2	V.2	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formato	formare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
risolvere	risolvere	VERB	V	advcl
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	obj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridici	giuridico	NOUN	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
suscettibili	suscettibile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
insorgere	insorgere	VERB	V	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bare	VERB	V	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
selezione	selezione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
219	219	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
consultivo	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sciolto	sciolto	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolare	regolare	VERB	V	conj
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sciolto	sciolre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
220	220	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Pareri	Pareri	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
precontenzioso	precontenzioso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
agire	agire	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Su	su	ADP	E	case
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
concedente	concedere	VERB	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
esprime	esprimere	VERB	VM	ROOT
parere	parere	VERB	V	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obl
insorte	insorto	VERB	V	acl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
aderito	aderire	VERB	V	conj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
impugnare	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
intenda	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conformarsi	conformare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obl
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
motivazioni	motivazione	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legittimata	legittimare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
agire	agire	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bandi	bando	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
violino	violare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
viziato	viziare	VERB	A	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
emette	emette	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
indica	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
vizi	vizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimità	legittimità	NOUN	S	nmod
riscontrati	riscontrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltante	appaltante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appaltante	appaltante	ADV	B	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
conforma	conformare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	conj
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
innanzi	innanzi	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
tipologie	tipologia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

DELLA	DELLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
GOVERNANCE	GOVERNANCE	PROPN	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
221	221	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Indirizzo	indirizzo	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Governance	Governance	PROPN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
`	`	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
V.3	V.3	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	ADJ	NO	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

31	31	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2024	2024	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
209	209	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	ROOT
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativa	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
condivisione	condivisione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
migliori	migliore	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
peggiori	peggiore	NOUN	S	conj
pratiche	pratico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
coinvolta	coinvolgere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
trae	trae	PROPN	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
spunti	spuntio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	ADJ	NO	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

31	31	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2024	2024	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
209	209	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	ADJ	NO	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

31	31	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2024	2024	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
209	209	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	ADJ	NO	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

31	31	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2024	2024	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
209	209	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	SP	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compito	compito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	parataxis
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obj
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
difficolta	difficolta	NOUN	S	conj
`	`	NUM	N	aux:pass
riscontrate	riscontrare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appaltanti	appaltare	ADJ	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	obj
correttive	correttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
miglioramento	miglioramento	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
curare	curare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	amod
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
coordinando	coordinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
attuativi	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
noncheriordino	noncheriordino	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurarne	assicurare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tempestività	tempestività	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
coerenza	coerenza	NOUN	S	conj
reciproca	reciproco	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
normative	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	mark
valutarne	valutare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	conj
omogeneità	omogeneità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
certezza	certezza	NOUN	S	conj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
supportando	supportare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vari	vario	ADJ	A	amod
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
regolatori	regolatore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contribuendo	contribuire	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sovrintendere	sovrintendere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
digitalizzazione	digitalizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
protocolli	protocollo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
bancabilità	bancabilità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
partenariato	partenariato	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politica	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agevolarne	agevolare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
potenziali	potenziale	ADJ	A	amod
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
banche	banca	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

favorire	favorire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

individuare	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
divulgare	divulgare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
appropriate	appropriato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	S	amod
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	obl
applicativi	applicativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
confluiscono	confluiscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
partenariato	partenariato	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
privato	privare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	dep
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dettare	dettare	VERB	V	conj
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvare	approvare	VERB	V	conj
buone	buono	ADJ	A	amod
pratiche	pratica	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Conferenza	Conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissari	commissari	NOUN	S	nmod
straordinari	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
segnala	segnala	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevute	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	conj
sistemici	sistemico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
avvalendosi	avvalendoso	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
frequenti	frequente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
incertezza	incertezza	NOUN	S	conj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
possibili	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
problemi	problema	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
strutturali	strutturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricorrenti	ricorrente	NOUN	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
microimprese	microimpresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
medie	medio	ADJ	A	conj
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
frode	frode	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	PRON	PI	conj
irregolarita	irregolarire	VERB	V	advcl
`	`	NUM	N	nmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
`	`	PROPN	V	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
reciproca	reciproco	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
onde	onde	SCONJ	CS	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
CIPESS	CIPESS	PROPN	SP	nsubj
elabora	elabora	VERB	S	ROOT
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	obj
politiche	politico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
predisponendo	predisponere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
piano	piano	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
strategici	strategico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alto	alto	ADJ	A	amod
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
innovazione	innovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tecnologia	tecnologia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
consultazioni	consultazione	NOUN	S	obl
periodiche	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
contenute	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
include	includere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
progetti	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
222	222	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
anticorruzione	anticorruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
anticorruzione	anticorruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
agisce	agire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrastare	contrastare	VERB	V	conj
illegalità	illegalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
bandi	bandio	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
capitolati	capitolare	VERB	V	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contratti	contratti	NOUN	V_PC	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
facilitando	facilitare	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
omogeneità	omogeneità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
favorisce	favorire	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
migliori	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
pratiche	pratica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trasmette	Trasmette	ADV	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camere	camera	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
ritenuti	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
potenzialmente	potenzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
coinvolti	coinvolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riconducibilità	riconducibilità	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	nmod
criminose	criminoso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	appos
anomale	anomale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
sintomatiche	sintomatico	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	obl
illecite	illecire	VERB	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	nsubj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnabilità	impugnabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
innanzi	innanzi	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bandi	bando	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitolati	capitolato	NOUN	S	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
dota	dotare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolazione	regolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	nmod
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettati	rispettare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolazione	regolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolazione	regolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	DD	obl
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttive	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl:agent
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
bandi	bandio	NOUN	S	ROOT
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
capitolati	capitolato	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionale	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
scaricabili	scaricabile	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
tale	tale	DET	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
garantirne	garantire ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autenticità	autenticità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
vigila	vigila	NUM	N	ROOT
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
secretati	secretato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esigono	esigono	VERB	V	conj
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l	l	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
m	m	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
irrogare	irrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
accertate	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
689	689	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniarie	pecuniarie	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	conj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sottoposizione	sottoposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
recidiva	recidivo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
vigila	vigila	NOUN	S	dep
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
segnala	segnalare	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
atto	atto	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fenomeni	fenomenare	VERB	V	advcl
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
distorta	distortare	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
formula	formulare	NOUN	V	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigere	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
predispone	predispone	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
invia	invia	ADJ	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	PROPN	SP	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
evidenziando	evidenziare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disfunzioni	disfunzione	NOUN	S	obj
riscontrate	riscontrare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
vigila	vigila	NUM	V	dep
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecutori	esecutore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
correlati	correlato	ADJ	A	obj
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	amod
sanzionatori	sanzionatore	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
vigila	vigila	NUM	V	dep
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	S	cc
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelle	quello	DET	DD	det
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
opera	operare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
derogatoria	derogatorio	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
140-bis	140-bis	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
affidamenti	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
collaborativa	collaborativo	ADJ	A	amod
attuata	attuare	VERB	V	acl
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protocolli	protocollo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
richiedenti	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finalizzata	finalizzare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sostenere	sostenere	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesima	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predisposizione	predisposizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gara	gara	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
persistente	persistente	NOUN	S	nsubj
mancato	mancare	ADJ	V	acl
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
firmatarie	firmatario	NOUN	S	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
protocolli	protocollo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adeguatamente	adeguatamente	ADV	B	advmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	i	ADJ	NO	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
economicità	economicità	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
elabora	elabora	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
normative	normativa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costi	costo	NOUN	S	conj
standard	standard	NOUN	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISTAT	ISTAT	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
statistico	statistico	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	obl
dati	dato	VERB	V	amod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
operanti	operanto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

l	L	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contribuisce	contribuire	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
digitalizzazione	digitalizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Cabina	Cabina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regia	regia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
gestisce	gestire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
appaltanti	appaltanto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
committenza	committenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausilio	ausilio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpo	Corpo	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
agendo	agere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Procure	Procure	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
derivi	derivo	ADJ	A	amod
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	amod
erario	erario	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Procura	Procura	PROPN	SP	conj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ANAC	ANAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
collabora	collabora	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
garante	garante	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rilevazione	rilevazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comportamenti	comportamento	NOUN	S	nmod
aziendali	aziendale	ADJ	A	amod
meritevoli	meritevolo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rating	rating	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legalità	legalità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep