Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Istituzione	Istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibile	deducibile	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Presupposto	presupposto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presupposto	presupposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	advmod
organizzata	organizzato	ADJ	A	amod
diretta	diretto	ADJ	S	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
presupposto	presupposto	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
autonoma	autonomo	VERB	V	xcomp
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
medici	medico	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
ospedaliere	ospedaliere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
laddove	laddove	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	nsubj
percepiscano	percepiscano	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
75	75	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
irrilevanti	irrilevanto	ADJ	A	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
realizzato	realizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
connesse	connettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
configurabile	configurabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
superano	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
standard	standard	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Soggetti	soggetti	ADJ	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Soggetti	Soggetti	NOUN	S	ROOT
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Pertanto	pertanto	ADV	B	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
accomandita	accomandita	NOUN	S	conj
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
equiparate	equiparare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
testo	testo	ADJ	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
esercenti	esercente	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	compound
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
semplici	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
equiparate	equiparare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
testo	testo	ADJ	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
esercenti	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
arti	arte	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
LETTERA	LETTERA	NOUN	S	ROOT
ABROGATA	ABROGATA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod

DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2015	2015	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
208	208	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	ROOT
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	NOUN	S	nmod
testo	testo	NOUN	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1986	1986	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazioni	Amministrazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1993	1993	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camera	Camera	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Deputati	Deputati	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Senato	Senato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
legislativi	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risparmio	risparmio	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
capitale	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
variabile	variabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
pensione	pensione	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	ROOT
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GEIE	GEIE	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
227	227	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
loro	loro	DET	AP	conj
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
601	601	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	VERB	V	amod
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
utilizzato	utilizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaboratori	collaboratore	NOUN	S	nmod
coordinati	coordinato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
continuativi	continuativo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utili	utile	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associati	associato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	conj
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cantieri	cantiere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
basi	base	NOUN	S	conj
fisse	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
operanti	operare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
banche	banca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
cambi	cambio	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
clientela	clientela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
eseguiti	eseguito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
premi	premio	NOUN	S	conj
raccolti	raccogliere	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ubicati	ubicare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	obl
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
domiciliato	domiciliare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominata	denominare	VERB	V	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	amod
Statoregioni	Statoregioni	PROPN	S	ROOT
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
capitali	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esercenti	esercere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
B	B	PROPN	SP	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2425	2425	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
voci	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
positivi	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negativi	negativo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
straordinaria	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rami	ramo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
così	così	ADV	B	cc
come	come	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
redigono	redigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
assumendo	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
voci	voce	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondenti	corrispondere	ADJ	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
negativi	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assimilato	assimilato	ADJ	A	conj
classificate	classificare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
voci	voce	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
citata	citata	ADJ	A	amod
voce	voce	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
B	B	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
2425	2425	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utili	utile	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	ROOT
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canoni	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
desunta	desunto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
correlati	correlare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obl
indeducibili	indeducibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
plusvalenze	plusvalenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
minusvalenze	minusvalenza	NOUN	S	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretta	direggere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammortamento	ammortamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenuto	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	B	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diciottesimo	diciottesimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj
positivi	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negativi	negativo	NOUN	S	conj
classificabili	classificabile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
voci	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
correlati	correlare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
collocazione	collocazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
positivi	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negativi	negativo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	conj
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
individuali	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricavi	ricave	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
85	85	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
f	f	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimanenze	rimanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
93	93	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussidiarie	sussidiario	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammortamento	ammortamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canoni	canone	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immateriali	immateriale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assimilato	assimilato	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utili	utile	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	ROOT
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canoni	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
desunta	desunto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
correlati	correlare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obl
indeducibili	indeducibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	conj
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	conj
valevoli	valevole	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	NOUN	S	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
optare	optare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opzione	opzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
IRAP	IRAP	ADJ	A	amod
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opzione	opzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
triennio	triennio	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opzione	opzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
tacitamente	tacitamente	ADV	B	advmod
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
triennio	triennio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opti	opti	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
direttoriale	direttoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
l	L	DET	PC	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opzione	opzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
triennio	triennio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tacitamente	tacitamente	ADV	B	advmod
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
6	6	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
intermediari	intermediario	NOUN	S	obl
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
algebrica	algebrico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
voci	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
schemi	schema	NOUN	S	nmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
emessi	emettere	ADJ	A	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	obl
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
margine	margine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ridotto	ridurre	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dividendi	dividendo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ammortamenti	ammortamere	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immateriali	immateriale	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
funzionale	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
90	90	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	ROOT
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
90	90	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	S	discourse
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rettifiche	rettifica	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riprese	ripresa	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
nette	netto	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
deterioramento	deterioramento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	DET	DD	obl
riconducibili	riconducibile	ADJ	S	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
clientela	clientela	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mobiliare	mobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
intermediari	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assume	assumere	VERB	V	parataxis
rilievo	riliere	VERB	SP	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proventi	provento	NOUN	A	conj
assimilati	assimilato	ADJ	B	advmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riporto	riporto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pronti	pronto	ADJ	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
attive	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
riferite	riferire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
prestati	prestare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
intermediario	intermediario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
assimilati	assimilato	ADJ	B	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riporto	riporto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pronti	pronto	ADJ	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
passive	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
riferite	riferire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
prestati	prestare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
intermediario	intermediario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
testo	testo	ADJ	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
attive	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
passive	passivo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
capitale	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
variabile	variabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
passive	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
collocatori	collocatore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
deducono	deducere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
negativi	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicata	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj
positivi	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negativi	negativo	NOUN	A	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14	14	NUM	N	conj
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	obl
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	conj
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
supplementi	supplemento	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
n.	numero	NOUN	S	conj
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cambi	cambio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	obj
i	il	DET	RD	det
bilanci	bilancio	NOUN	S	obj
compilati	compilare	VERB	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevazione	rilevazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	conj
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banca	banca	NOUN	S	obl
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
SEBC	SEBC	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccomandazioni	raccomandazione	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
formulate	formulare	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
algebrica	algebrico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
netti	netto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	ROOT
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvigioni	provvigione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
costi	costo	NOUN	S	parataxis
per	per	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
banconote	banconota	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	xcomp
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redistribuzione	redistribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
monetario	monetario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ammortamenti	ammortamere	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobilizzazioni	immobilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immateriali	immateriale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
90	90	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
90	90	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utili	utile	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	ROOT
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canoni	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
desunta	desunto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mobiliare	mobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
96	96	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	NOUN	S	nmod
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nummod
2015	2015	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
208	208	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
correlati	correlare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obl
indeducibili	indeducibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
plusvalenze	plusvalenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
minusvalenze	minusvalenza	NOUN	S	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretta	direggere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammortamento	ammortamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenuto	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	B	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diciottesimo	diciottesimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
9.((Per	9.((Per	VERB	N	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assimilati	assimilato	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
aggiungendo	aggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	obl
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
attivi	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	conj
assimilati	assimilato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
assimilati	assimilato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
96	96	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
apportando	apportare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rami	ramo	NOUN	S	nmod
danni	danno	NOUN	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
voce	voce	NOUN	S	obl
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rami	ramo	NOUN	S	nmod
vita	vita	NOUN	S	compound
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
voce	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ammortamenti	ammortamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
classificati	classificare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
voci	voce	NOUN	S	appos
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
70	70	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
90	90	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dividendi	dividendo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
voce	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
svalutazioni	svalutazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
riprese	ripresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
nette	netto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
deterioramento	deterioramento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
riconducibili	riconducibile	ADJ	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assicurati	assicurato	NOUN	V_PC	nmod
iscritti	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
49	49	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	fixed
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assimilato	assimilare	VERB	V	conj
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
classificate	classificato	ADJ	A	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utili	utile	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
svalutazioni	svalutazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
riprese	ripresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	ROOT
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canoni	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
desunta	desunto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
96	96	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
correlati	correlare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obl
indeducibili	indeducibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
plusvalenze	plusvalenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
minusvalenze	minusvalenza	NOUN	S	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretta	direggere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammortamento	ammortamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenuto	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marco	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	B	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diciottesimo	diciottesimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nsubj
positivi	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negativi	negativo	NOUN	A	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	dep
impartite	impartire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ISVAP	ISVAP	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
735	735	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
supplemento	supplemento	NOUN	S	obl
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
289	289	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
percepiti	percepire	VERB	A	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenuti	sostenuto	VERB	V	acl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
esercitata	esercitato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammortamento	ammortamento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immateriali	immateriale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
rilevanti	rilevante	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcuni	alcuno	DET	DI	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
agricolo	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
allevamento	allevamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dirette	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispettivi	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
agriturismo	agriturismo	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	conj
forfetario	forfetario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
optare	optare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opzione	opzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	expl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	ROOT
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	X	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
coordinata	coordinare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
continuativa	continuativo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
l	l	X	PC	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	NOUN	S	nmod
testo	testo	NOUN	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1986	1986	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl:agent
impobibile	impobibile	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
remunerazioni	remunerazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sacerdoti	sacerdoto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
testo	testo	ADJ	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
esenti	esente	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
borse	borsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
computando	computare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obj
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
ivi	ivi	ADV	S	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
riferibili	riferibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricavi	ricave	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	conj
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	conj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
ricavi	ricavo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emolumenti	emolumento	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
riferibile	riferibile	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
emolumenti	emolumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
riferibili	riferibile	ADJ	A	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	case
D.LGS	D.LGS	PROPN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

30	30	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
506	506	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
esercenti	esercente	ADJ	A	amod
arti	arte	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
LETTERA	LETTERA	NOUN	S	obl
ABROGATA	ABROGATA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	case
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

30	30	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
506	506	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	acl
tali	tale	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10-bis	10-bis	VERB	V	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	conj
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
erogate	erogare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
coordinata	coordinare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
continuativa	continuativo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
l	l	X	PC	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	NOUN	S	obl
testo	testo	NOUN	S	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl:agent
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	conj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
esenti	esente	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	X	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
qualificati	qualificare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
quali	quale	DET	DQ	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
principale	principale	ADJ	A	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl:agent
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
borse	borsa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
universitario	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
università	università	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
390	390	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
optare	optare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
computando	computare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obj
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
ivi	ivi	ADV	S	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
riferibili	riferibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricavi	ricave	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	conj
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	conj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emolumenti	emolumento	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
riferibile	riferibile	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
emolumenti	emolumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
riferibili	riferibile	ADJ	A	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
assicurazioni	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
infortuni	infortuno	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	ROOT
corrisposte	corrisposto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
istituito	istituito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj
aderiscono	aderire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ottemperanza	ottemperanza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
21	21	NUM	N	flat:name
GIUGNO	GIUGNO	PROPN	SP	punct
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
73	73	NUM	N	flat:name
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CON	CON	ADP	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	conj
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod

AGOSTO	AGOSTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod

DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT

2018	2018	NUM	N	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
145	145	NUM	N	nummod

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
21	21	NUM	N	nummod

GIUGNO	GIUGNO	PROPN	SP	ROOT

2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
73	73	NUM	N	flat:name
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	conj
CON	CON	ADP	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apprendisti	apprendista	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
a	a	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj
sostenuti	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
sostenuti	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
effettività	effettività	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	NOUN	PD	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
sindacale	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
revisore	revisore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
professionista	professionista	NOUN	S	conj
iscritto	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albi	albo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revisori	revisore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dottori	dottore	NOUN	S	nmod
commercialisti	commercialista	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragionieri	ragioniero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
periti	perito	NOUN	S	conj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centro	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	obl
2007	2007	NUM	N	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	obl
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	conj
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
permettere	permettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
i	i	ADJ	NO	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l	l	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
coordinata	coordinato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
continuativa	continuativo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
testo	testo	ADJ	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
assimilato	assimilare	VERB	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dipendente	dipendere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
spettanti	spettante	NOUN	S	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associati	associato	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	nmod
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
33	33	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1.1	1.1	NUM	N	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2004	2004	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
agricolo	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
dipendente	dipendere	NOUN	S	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
lavorato	lavorare	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
giornate	giornata	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
45	45	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzate	autorizzare	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
auto	auto	ADJ	S	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferta	trasferta	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
contrattualmente	contrattualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
concorre	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
formare	formare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	conj
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	conj
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	conj
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
e	e	CCONJ	CC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
8.000	8.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obj
180.759,91	180.759,91	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
6.000	6.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
supera	superare	NOUN	V	advcl
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obj
180.759,91	180.759,91	NUM	AP	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
euro	euro	NOUN	V	conj
180.839,91	180.839,91	NUM	N	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
4.000	4.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
supera	superare	NOUN	S	advcl
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obj
180.839,91	180.839,91	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
180.919,91	180.919,91	NUM	N	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
2.000	2.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
supera	supera	NOUN	S	advcl
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obj
180.919,91	180.919,91	NUM	N	amod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
euro	euro	NOUN	V	conj
180.999,91	180.999,91	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	ADP	E	fixed
-	-	PUNCT	S	nmod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
a	a	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	fixed
a	a	ADP	E	case
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentato	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
3.750	3.750	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2.500	2.500	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
1.250	1.250	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis.1	4-bis.1	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
a	a	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	fixed
ad	a	ADP	E	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
positivi	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
400.000	400.000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
1.850	1.850	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
dipendente	dipendere	VERB	V	acl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apprendisti	apprendista	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disabili	disabili	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	conj
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
lavoro.(35	lavoro.(35	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis.2	4-bis.2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
positivi	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis.1	4-bis.1	NUM	N	compound
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ragguagliati	ragguagliare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-bis.1	4-bis.1	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ragguagliate	ragguagliare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
tipi	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
verticale	verticale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
misto	misto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	parataxis
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
spettano	spettare	VERB	V	advcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	conj
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	obj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-quater	4-quater	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
21	21	NUM	N	flat:name

GIUGNO	GIUGNO	PROPN	SP	ROOT

2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
73	73	NUM	N	flat:name
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	conj
CON	CON	ADP	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-quinquies	4-quinquies	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	conj
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-sexies	4-sexies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	conj
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-septies	4-septies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
dipendente	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-bis.1	4-bis.1	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
eccedere	eccedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentato	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-octies	4-octies	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
70	70	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sostenuto	sostenere	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
stagionale	stagionale	ADJ	A	amod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
arco	arco	NOUN	S	obl
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	ADJ	FB	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	case
11-bis	11-bis	PRON	S	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
2007	2007	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
realizzata	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	amod
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	nmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
attribuibili	attribuibile	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scomputata	scomputare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl:agent
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
arti	arte	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
fissa	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
rendiconto	rendiconto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
redigersi	redigere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	obl
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
mercati	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
regolamentati	regolamentato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
diffusi	diffondere	VERB	V	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
87	87	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritte	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
457	457	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	ADJ	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
attribuibile	attribuibila	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scomputata	scomputare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl:agent
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
GEIE	GEIE	PROPN	S	obj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imputato	imputare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
membro	membro	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
proporzione	proporzione	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
uguali	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
prodotto	prodotto	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20	20	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
membro	membro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
prodotto	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nsubj
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
domiciliati	domiciliare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Periodo	Periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
corrisponde	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	obl
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
realizzato	realizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicando	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
3,50	3,50	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
concessionarie	concessionario	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autostrade	autostrada	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trafori	trafore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
3,80	3,80	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
4,20	4,20	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5,30	5,30	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-bis	10-bis	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
8,5	8,5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
emanazione	emanazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
variare	variare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
0,92	0,92	NUM	N	nummod
punti	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
percentuali	percentuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differenziata	differenziare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	amod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
semplificare	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimenti	NOUN	S	amod
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuenti	contribuente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
intermediari	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inviano	inviano	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributo	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
portale	portale	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
federalismo	federalismo	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inapplicabilità	inapplicabilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	ADJ	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agevolazioni	agevolazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fruire	fruire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regimi	regimo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
decennale	decennale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
esonero	esonero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ubicato	ubicare	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	expl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj
agevolativo	agevolativo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
residuo	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fruito	fruire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regimi	regimi	ADJ	V_PC	obl
forfetari	forfetario	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
determinarsi	determinare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
aumentando	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obj
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
regimi	regimo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	obl
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaboratori	collaboratore	NOUN	S	obl
coordinati	coordinato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
continuativi	continuativo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
tecnicamente	tecnicamente	ADV	B	advmod
organizzati	organizzato	ADJ	A	amod
impiantati	impiantare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Mezzogiorno	mezzogiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
95/455	95/455	X	S	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	A	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammontare	ammontare	VERB	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
risultante	risultare	VERB	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fiscalizzazione	fiscalizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
franchi	franco	NOUN	S	nmod
svizzeri	svizzero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Campione	Campione	PROPN	SP	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computato	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cambio	cambio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
forfetariamente	forfetariamente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
espresso	esprimere	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
franchi	franco	NOUN	S	obl
svizzeri	svizzero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
abbattimento	abbattimento	ADJ	A	amod
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
26.000	26.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nsubj
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Campione	Campione	PROPN	SP	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
beneficiare	beneficiare	NOUN	S	csubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1407/2013	1407/2013	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
108	108	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aiuti	aiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
de	de	ADP	E	case
minimis	minimis	X	SW	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1408/2013	1408/2013	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
108	108	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aiuti	aiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
de	de	X	E	case
minimis	minimis	X	SW	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
agricolo	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	obl
edilizie	edilizio	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
indivisa	indiviso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
frazionamento	frazionamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mutuo	mutuo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
divisa	diviso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	obl
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
svantaggiate	svantaggiato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibile	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	dep
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cooperative	cooperativa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
602	602	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deducono	deducere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obj
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
corrisposte	corrisposto	ADJ	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
salari	salare	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2000	2000	NUM	N	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
dedurre	dedurre	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2001	2001	NUM	N	nummod
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agevolazioni	agevolazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
210	210	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
662	662	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
210	210	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
intraprese	intraprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territori	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	E	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
successivi	successivo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
riferibili	riferibile	ADJ	A	acl
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arti	arte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
compete	competere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detta	detta	NOUN	S	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	V	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
intraprese	intraprendere	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
aree	area	NOUN	S	obl
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obiettivo	obiettivo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
CEE	CEE	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2052/88	2052/88	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
successivi	successivo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
210	210	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
662	662	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obl
recate	recare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentati	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
percentuale	percentuale	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
consegua	conseguare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
debito	debito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	conj
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
emettono	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
autorizzativi	autorizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatta	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullita	nullita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
stampato	stampare	VERB	V	obl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicare	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	obl
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscriggere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullita	nullita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negoziale	negoziale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sanata	sanare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	mark
allegare	allegare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	nmod
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	ADP	SP	case
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	advmod
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
542	542	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fallimento	fallimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
coatta	coatto	ADJ	S	amod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fusione	fusione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scissione	scissione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
individuali	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
fallimentare	fallimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
coatta	coatto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	advcl
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	amod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
documentali	documentale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
domiciliato	domiciliare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	NOUN	S	conj
addizionale	addizionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
546	546	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
magnetici	magnetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpo	Corpo	PROPN	SP	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	conj
erariali	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
Stato-Regioni	Stato-Regione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anagrafe	anagrafe	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Poteri	poteri	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disciplinare	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
recati	recare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
applicative	applicativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	ferme	ADJ	A	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
662	662	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
158	158	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
159	159	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
compete	competere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
comandi	comandi	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
cooperano	cooperano	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
reperimento	reperimento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
repressione	repressione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procedendo	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
loro	loro	PRON	PE	iobj
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmettendo	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
Stato-Regioni	Stato-Regione	NOUN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
irrogazione	irrogazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
riscosse	riscosso	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
continuate	continuato	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disciplina	Disciplina	PROPN	SP	advcl
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obj
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rettifica	rettifico	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settimo	settimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
45	45	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
segnalando	segnalare	VERB	V	advcl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collaborando	collaborare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
paritetiche	paritetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predisposizione	predisposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	Amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nmod
unificata	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituite	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disciplinate	disciplinare	ADJ	V	conj
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
paritetiche	paritetico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stesura	stesura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26	26	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
riscosso	riscosso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenuti	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regolatrice	regolatrice	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
abolizione	abolizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
imposta	imporre	VERB	V	parataxis
riscosso	riscosso	ADJ	A	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivo	successivo	NOUN	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
Stato-Regioni	Stato-Regione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
Stato-Regioni	Stato-Regione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Compartecipazione	compartecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
devolvono	devolvere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
riscosso	riscosso	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
1997	1997	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arti	arte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lordo	lordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
versati	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commisurati	commisurare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
riscosso	riscosso	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
1996	1996	NUM	N	obl
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
rendiconti	rendiconto	NOUN	S	obl
consuntivi	consuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
conguaglio	conguaglio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultanze	risultanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rendiconti	rendiconto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivo	successivo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
comunicati	comunicato	NOUN	S	amod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
Regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
somme	somma	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
vincolata	vincolata	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
incrementati	incrementare	VERB	V	ROOT
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	obl
programmato	programmato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inflazione	inflazione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
previsionale	previsionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
programmatica	programmatico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	obl
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versato	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
quivi	quivo	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	obl:agent
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decretolegge	decretolegge	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
599	599	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetta	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
attribuire	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
compartecipazione	compartecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
finanziare	finanziare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
delegate	delegare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.	D.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
LGS	LGS	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

10	10	NUM	N	nummod
APRILE	APRILE	NOUN	S	ROOT
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
137	137	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
Friuli	Friuli	PROPN	SP	nmod
Venezia-Giulia	Venezia-Giulia	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Valle	Valle	PROPN	SP	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Aosta	Aosta	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assicurando	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	NOUN	PD	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
compensare	compensare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
negativi	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.	D.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
LGS	LGS	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

10	10	NUM	N	nummod
APRILE	APRILE	NOUN	S	ROOT
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
137	137	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29	29	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
città	città	NOUN	S	nmod
metropolitane	metropolitano	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuire	attribuire	VERB	V	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
città	città	NOUN	S	obl
metropolitane	metropolitano	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affidate	affidare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assegnare	assegnare	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
30	30	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obj
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
acconti	acconte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
acconti	acconte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versati	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
saldo	saldo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
negativo	negativo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rimborsabile	rimborsabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superano	superare	VERB	V	advcl
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obj
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruoli	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
importo	importo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adeguato	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	obj
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-bis	10-bis	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
versano	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nsubj
mensilmente	mensilmente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
Stato-Regioni	Stato-Regione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	dep
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emolumenti	emolumento	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
corrisposti	corrisposta	NOUN	S	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nsubj
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
regolano	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obj
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
ruoli	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionari	concessionario	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riscosso	riscosso	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
remunerate	remunerare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
24	24	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mentre	mentre	SCONJ	CS	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
concessionari	concessionare	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
31	31	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Primo	Primo	ADJ	NO	amod
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
37	37	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
versare	versare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
rate	rata	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
120	120	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
figurativa	figurativo	ADJ	A	amod
liquidabile	liquidabile	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
netta	netto	ADJ	A	amod
realizzato	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risultante	risultante	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
prospetto	prospetto	ADJ	A	amod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
stampato	stampato	ADJ	V	xcomp
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obl
approvato	approvare	ADJ	A	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
allegare	allegare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redatta	redatto	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto.((Gli	decreto.((Gli	NOUN	S	nmod
omessi	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
insufficienti	insufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduti	scadere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolarizzati	regolarizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettare	effettare	VERB	V	acl
sucessivamente	sucessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
data	dare	VERB	V	acl
applicando	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
calcolati	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
maturazione	maturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	case
D.LGS	D.LGS	PROPN	S	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

24	24	NUM	N	nummod
SETTEMBRE	SETTEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2015	2015	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
158	158	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
COME	COME	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICATO	MODIFICATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	conj
LEGGE	LEGGE	PROPN	SP	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	S	conj
2015	2015	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
208	208	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	ADJ	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
33	33	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	case
D.LGS	D.LGS	PROPN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

24	24	NUM	N	nummod
SETTEMBRE	SETTEMBRE	PROPN	SP	obl
2015	2015	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
158	158	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
COME	COME	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICATO	MODIFICATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	conj
LEGGE	LEGGE	PROPN	SP	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	S	conj
2015	2015	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
208	208	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	ADJ	FB	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34	34	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ritardato	Ritardato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omesso	omesso	NOUN	S	conj
versamento	versamento	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritardato	ritardato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omesso	omesso	NOUN	S	conj
versamento	versamento	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
saldo	saldo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versata	versare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Identica	Identica	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36-bis	36-bis	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
36-ter	36-ter	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
sostituiti	sostituire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sugli	Sugli	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versati	versare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
versati	versare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
602	602	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Violazioni	violazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dirette	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
36	36	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abolizione	abolizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	dep
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aboliti	abolire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	mark
da	da	ADP	E	fixed
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	obl
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
85	85	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	appos
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
0,2	0,2	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1961	1961	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1443	1443	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1962	1962	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1338	1338	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tubercolosi	tubercolosi	NOUN	S	nmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
arti	arte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
tassa	tassa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
governativa	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
partita	partita	NOUN	S	nmod
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1972	1972	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
641	641	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
461	461	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
aboliti	abolito	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
abolizione	abolizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
37	37	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Soggetti	Soggetti	PROPN	A	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
coincidente	coincidente	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
coincide	coincidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	VERB	V	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abolizione	abolizione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
iniziato	iniziare	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abolizione	abolizione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
periodo	periodo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
scomputare	scomputare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
i	il	DET	RD	det
dodicesimi	dodicesimo	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tassa	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
interi	intero	ADJ	A	amod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abolizione	abolizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
versati	versare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
scomputati	scomputato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38	38	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	conj
quote	quota	NOUN	S	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assegnare	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	obl
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	NOUN	B	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricalcolato	ricalcolare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
riscossi	riscossi	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
verificatisi	verificare si	VERB	VA_PC	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	compound
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Fondo	Fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assegnare	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1998	1998	NUM	N	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
Sicilia	Sicilia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Sardegna	Sardegna	PROPN	SP	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
537	537	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	mark
da	da	ADP	E	fixed
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
143	143	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
662	662	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commisurata	commisurare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	obl
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettiti	gettito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39	39	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ripartizione	Ripartizione	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
CIPE	CIPE	PROPN	SP	nsubj
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanità	sanità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
Stato-Regioni	Stato-Regione	NOUN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delibera	delibera	NOUN	V	ROOT
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
presunto	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stimati	stimare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
CIPE	CIPE	PROPN	SP	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultanti	risultante	ADJ	A	amod
compensazioni	compensazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
valere	valere	VERB	V	xcomp
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
erogate	erogare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
concedere	concedere	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
anticipazioni	anticipazione	NOUN	S	obj
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
accreditare	accreditare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	obl
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tesoreria	tesoreria	NOUN	S	obl
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dodicesimo	dodicesimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
presunto	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
deliberate	deliberare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
CIPE	CIPE	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
CIPE	CIPE	PROPN	SP	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
anticipazioni	anticipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commisurate	commisurare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
presunto	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettiti	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
presunto	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	obl
sanitari	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettiti	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
previsti	previsto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riparto	riparto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
riscosso	riscosso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
quantificata	quantificare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	fixed
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
19	19	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------------	------------------	NOUN	S	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40	40	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riversamento	riversamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Irap	Irap	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	conj
Irpef	Irpef	NOUN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	conj
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tesoreria	tesoreria	NOUN	S	obl
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
infruttiferi	infruttifere	ADJ	VA	amod
intestati	intestare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
tesoreria	tesoreria	NOUN	S	nmod
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	S	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
operanti	operare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluoghi	capoluogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	appos
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
girofondi	girofonde	NOUN	S	nmod
intestate	intestare	VERB	V	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
Stato-Regioni	Stato-Regione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riversamento	riversamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
riscosse	riscosso	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	conj
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1923	1923	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2440	2440	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
41	41	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	case
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

18	18	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accedono	accedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanità	sanità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
27	27	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compartecipazioni	compartecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
erariali	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
soppressi	soppresso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convenzionalmente	convenzionalmente	ADJ	A	amod
incrementati	incrementato	VERB	A	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
crescita	crescita	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
lordo	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	X	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
indiretti	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ampliamento	ampliamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
basi	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibili	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
compartecipati	compartecipato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accedono	accede	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	DI	ROOT
sottraendo	sottraere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
27	27	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1998	1998	NUM	N	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	obl
sanitari	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitari	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
riscossi	riscosso	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convenzionalmente	convenzionalmente	NOUN	S	amod
aumentati	aumentare	ADJ	V	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
crescita	crescita	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
lordo	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	X	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compartecipazioni	compartecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
erariali	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
soppressi	soppresso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anch'	anche	ADV	B	advmod
essi	essi	PRON	PE	obl
convenzionalmente	convenzionalmente	ADJ	A	amod
incrementati	incrementato	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
crescita	crescita	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
lordo	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	X	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
indiretti	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ampliamento	ampliamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
basi	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibili	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
compartecipati	compartecipato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
s'	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
ricalcolato	ricalcolare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
42	42	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
perequativo	perequativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
549	549	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
soppresso	sopprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	case
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

18	18	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	case
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

18	18	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	case
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

18	18	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
anticipazioni	anticipazione	NOUN	S	obj
straordinarie	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
549	549	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattenuta	trattenuta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
erogazioni	erogazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
549	549	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
positive	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negative	negativo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compensate	compensare	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1998	1998	NUM	N	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2002	2002	NUM	N	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
statuti	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modifica	modificare	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
variabili	variabile	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
statuti	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2003	2003	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
statuti	statuto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
esaurimento	esaurimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
43	43	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riferimenti	riferimenti	NOUN	S	nmod
sistematici	sistematico	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
indistintamente	indistintamente	ADV	B	advmod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
riferite	riferire	VERB	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
Trentino-Alto	Trentino-Alto	PROPN	SP	nmod
Adige	Adige	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
autonomie	autonomia	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	DET	DD	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	obj
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44	44	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattati	trattato	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattati	trattato	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparata	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	obl
erariali	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
aboliti	abolire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
45	45	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
transitorie	transitorio	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
2015	2015	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
208	208	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5,4	5,4	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
4,75	4,75	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	fixed
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ammontari	ammontario	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
assoluto	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
percentuale	percentuale	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
impositivo	impositivo	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
soppressi	soppressio	ADJ	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
51	51	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
fissare	fissare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
applicative	applicativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	V	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
assoluto	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comportare	comportare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
miliardi	miliardo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
miliardi	miliardo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
miliardi	miliardo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
Irap	Irap	PROPN	SP	nmod
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
risulterebbe	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prendendo	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sarebbero	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	advmod
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	mark
versare	versare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ripartito	ripartire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computata	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
25	25	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	VERB	V	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquoto	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scaglioni	scaglione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lorda	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicando	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
scaglioni	scaglione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
15.000.000	15.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
........................	........................	PUNCT	E	case
18,5	18,5	NUM	N	nummod
%	%	SYM	SYM	obl:agent

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
15.000.000	15.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
30.000.000	30.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
26,5	26,5	NUM	N	nummod
%	%	SYM	SYM	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
30.000.000	30.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
60.000.000	60.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
33,5	33,5	NUM	N	nummod
%	%	SYM	SYM	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
60.000.000	60.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
135.000.000	135.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
39,5	39,5	NUM	N	nummod
%	%	SYM	SYM	nsubj:pass

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
135.000.000	135.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
........................	........................	PUNCT	FS	case
45,5	45,5	NUM	N	nummod
%	%	SYM	SYM	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
carichi	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Detrazioni	Detrazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
carichi	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
lorda	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
detraggono	detraggere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
carichi	carico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separato	ADJ	A	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
1.057.552	1.057.552	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obj
30.000.000	30.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
961.552	961.552	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
30.000.000	30.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
60.000.000	60.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
889.552	889.552	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
60.000.000	60.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
100.000.000	100.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
817.552	817.552	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
100.000.000	100.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affiliati	affiliare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
433	433	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
conviva	convire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
percepisca	percepisco	VERB	V	conj
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	obj
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
336.000	336.000	NUM	N	nummod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ripartire	ripartire	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
proporzione	proporzione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obl
sostenuto	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	obj
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
coniugato	coniugare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
coniugato	coniugare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nsubj
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affiliati	affiliare	VERB	V	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questi	questi	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
coniugato	coniugare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
coniugato	coniugare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
carichi	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
spettano	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
possiedano	possiedare	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
computando	computare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
retribuzioni	retribuzione	NOUN	S	obj
corrisposte	corrisporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rappresentanze	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
missioni	missione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
corrisposte	corrisporre	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Santa	Santa	PROPN	SP	obl
Sede	Sede	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
gestiti	gestire	VERB	V	acl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Chiesa	chiesa	NOUN	S	nmod
cattolica	cattolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
5.500.000	5.500.000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lordo	lordo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
carichi	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rapportate	rapportare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
competono	competere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificate	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessate	cessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
richieste	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
48	48	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Detrazioni	detrazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	conj
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	ADJ	S	amod
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
lorda	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rapportata	rapportare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pensione	pensione	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
importi	importo	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
1.680.000	1.680.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obj
9.100.000	9.100.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
1.600.000	1.600.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
9.100.000	9.100.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
9.300.000	9.300.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
1.500.000	1.500.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
9.300.000	9.300.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
15.000.000	15.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
1.350.000	1.350.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
15.000.000	15.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
15.300.000	15.300.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
1.250.000	1.250.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
15.300.000	15.300.000	NUM	N	dep
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
15.600.000	15.600.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
1.150.000	1.150.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
15.600.000	15.600.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
15.900.000	15.900.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
1.050.000	1.050.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
15.900.000	15.900.000	NUM	N	nsubj
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
30.000.000	30.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
950.000	950.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
30.000.000	30.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
40.000.000	40.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	i	ADJ	RD	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
850.000	850.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
40.000.000	40.000.000	NUM	N	dep
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
50.000.000	50.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
l	l	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
750.000	750.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
50.000.000	50.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
60.000.000	60.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
650.000	650.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
60.000.000	60.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
60.300.000	60.300.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
n	n	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
550.000	550.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
60.300.000	60.300.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
70.000.000	70.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
450.000	450.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
70.000.000	70.000.000	NUM	N	nsubj
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
80.000.000	80.000.000	NUM	N	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
p	p	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
350.000	350.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
80.000.000	80.000.000	NUM	N	advcl
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
90.000.000	90.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
q	q	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
250.000	250.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
90.000.000	90.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
90.400.000	90.400.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
r	r	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
150.000	150.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
90.400.000	90.400.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
100.000.000	100.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
s	s	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
100.000.000	100.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
pensionistici	pensionistico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
18.000.000	18.000.000	NUM	N	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
immobiliare	immobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
adibita	adibito	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
pertinenze	pertinenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rapportata	rapportare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pensione	pensione	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
70.000	70.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
lorda	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
cumulabile	cumulabile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
700.000	700.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obj
9.100.000	9.100.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
600.000	600.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
9.100.000	9.100.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
9.300.000	9.300.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
500.000	500.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
9.300.000	9.300.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
9.600.000	9.600.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
400.000	400.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
9.600.000	9.600.000	PUNCT	N	nsubj
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
9.900.000	9.900.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
300.000	300.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
9.900.000	9.900.000	NUM	N	csubj
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
15.000.000	15.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
200.000	200.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
15.000.000	15.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
30.000.000	30.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
30.000.000	30.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
60.000.000	60.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
mila	mila	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituite	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	ROOT
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
mila	mila	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Detrazioni	detrazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
percentuale	percentuale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenuti	sostenuto	ADJ	A	amod
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl:agent
lorda	lordo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
formare	formare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
sostenuti	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
50	50	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Istituzione	Istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibile	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tassa	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicando	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	S	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
riconosciute	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
15	15	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	NOUN	S	nmod
testo	testo	NOUN	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
compartecipazione	compartecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
0,50	0,50	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicare	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
maggiorare	maggiorare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
suddetta	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
deliberare	deliberare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggiorazione	maggiorazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
applichi	applicare	VERB	V	ccomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
semplificazione	semplificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituti	sostituto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
intermediari	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
inviare	inviare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
28	28	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
contenuti	contenuti	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Conferenza	Conferenza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inapplicabilità	inapplicabilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	conj
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
47	47	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituti	sostituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
29	29	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conguaglio	conguaglio	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
detti	detto	NOUN	S	amod
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
undici	undici	NUM	N	nummod
rate	rato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
paga	paga	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ritenute	ritenuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versate	versare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
paga	pagare	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
conguaglio	conguaglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	mark
trattenere	trattenere	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	obl
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1973	1973	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versata	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritenute	ritenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
saldo	saldo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nsubj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NUM	N	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspetti	aspetto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
segnalando	segnalare	VERB	V	advcl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	VERB	V	obl:agent
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
semplificazione	semplificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuenti	contribuente	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
unificazione	unificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
modernizzazione	modernizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiunta	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
d	d	ADP	E	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	ROOT
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1999	1999	NUM	N	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
0,5	0,5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
51	51	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
abolite	abolire	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abolite	abolire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
comunali	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
702	702	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1979	1979	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abolite	abolire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
LETTERA	LETTERA	PROPN	SP	dep
ABROGATA	ABROGATA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
448	448	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registro	registro	NOUN	S	amod
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1977	1977	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
952	952	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	appos
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	S	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
549	549	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
abolizione	abolizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
52	52	NUM	N	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Potestà	Potestà	PROPN	SP	nmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nsubj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disciplinare	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
attiene	attenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibili	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
semplificazione	semplificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuenti	contribuente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
regolamentato	regolamentare	VERB	V	acl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
30	30	NUM	N	fixed
APRILE	APRILE	PROPN	SP	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	parataxis
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	conj
CON	CON	ADP	E	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	dep
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
GIUGNO	GIUGNO	PROPN	SP	punct

2019	2019	NUM	N	ROOT

,	,	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
impugnare	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
vizi	vizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimità	legittimità	NOUN	S	nmod
avanti	avanti	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
attiene	attenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informati	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
associate	associato	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
28	28	NUM	N	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deliberato	deliberare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disgiuntamente	disgiuntamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidate	affidare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	A	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
vigenti	vigere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nsubj
iscritti	iscritto	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	SP	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
75	75	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
menzionate	menzionato	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	obj
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalenti	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
capitale	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
113	113	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitale	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
eserciti	esercito	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
analogo	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
realizzi	realizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
importante	importante	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
controlla	controllare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
controlla	controllare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
113	113	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	NOUN	S	nmod
testo	testo	ADJ	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscritte	iscritte	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
soci	socio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	conj
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	conj
avvenga	avverre	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
evidenza	evidenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
64)(68	64)(68	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comportare	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obj
aggiuntivi	aggiuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecutività	esecutività	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruoli	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
apposto	apposto	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionario	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
designato	designato	VERB	V	acl
quale	quale	ADP	CS	nmod
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	conj
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	S	conj
2001	2001	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
448	448	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
62)(64	62)(64	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
53	53	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Albo	Albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituito	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
albo	albo	ADJ	A	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	obl
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
incasso	incasso	NOUN	S	nmod
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	conj
periodica	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoco	NOUN	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ANCI	ANCI	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
UPI	UPI	PROPN	SP	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasparenza	trasparenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
Statocittà	Statocittà	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguati	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
morali	morale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
emanate	emanare	VERB	V	conj
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
carica	carica	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	ADJ	A	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	amod
affidatari	affidatario	NOUN	A	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgano	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiito	stabiire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
transitorio	transitorio	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	A	amod
suddetto	suddetto	ADV	B	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
507	507	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
54	54	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
approvano	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanti	rilevante	NOUN	S	nmod
incrementi	incremento	NOUN	S	compound
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incremento	incremento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
retroattivo	retroattivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
55	55	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tasse	Tasse	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
56	56	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istituire	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	obl
registro	registro	NOUN	S	amod
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avente	avere	VERB	V	conj
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	ADJ	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1927	1927	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
436	436	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	ADJ	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1927	1927	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1814	1814	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
285	285	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Provincia	Provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
residenza	residenzare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inteso	intendere	VERB	V	acl
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
avente	avere	VERB	V	advcl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
intestatario	intestatario	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicolo	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
approvata	approvare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
veicolo	veicolo	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
virtù	virtù	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
ipotecaria	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
maggiorazioni	maggiorazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	B	amod
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computate	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perequazione	perequazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nsubj
notificano	notificare	VERB	A	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecutività	esecutività	NOUN	S	nmod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	compound
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
istitutiva	istitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modificativa	modificativa	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
tariffario	tariffario	ADJ	A	amod
interessa	interessare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
immatricolazioni	immatricolazione	NOUN	S	obj
effettuate	effettuare	ADJ	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deliberato	deliberare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
opera	operare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
contabilizzazione	contabilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omesso	omesso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardato	ritardato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
471	471	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
gestite	gestire	VERB	V	advcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
concessionario	concessionario	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	nmod
registro	registro	NOUN	S	amod
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
riversa	riversa	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoreria	tesoreria	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributo	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
riscosse	riscore	AUX	VA	nsubj
inviando	inviare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurata	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	obl
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
registro	registro	NOUN	S	compound
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
suppletiva	suppletivo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nsubj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
statuti	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cessioni	cessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
usati	usato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	obl
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuenti	contribuente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cessioni	cessione	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscatto	riscatto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
locatario	locatario	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
autoveicoli	autoveicolo	NOUN	S	obl
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimorchi	rimorco	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
servire	servire	VERB	V	xcomp
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
semprechè	semprechè	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	cop
adatti	adatto	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Analoga	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
operarsi	operare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
approvata	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimorchi	rimorco	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
campeggio	campeggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
simili	simile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fusione	fusione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
esercenti	esercente	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
conducente	conducente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obj
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	obl
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fusione	fusione	NOUN	S	nmod
conservano	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessionario	cessionario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
bisogno	bisogno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2688	2688	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
c.c	c.c	NOUN	SP	nmod
.	.	NOUN	FS	nmod

si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
societari	societario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
adempimenti	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
546	546	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
respinte	respinte	ADJ	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
provinciali	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ripresentazione	ripresentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
addizionale	addizionale	NOUN	S	conj
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
versate	versato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsate	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obj
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	NOUN	A	conj
addizionale	addizionale	ADJ	A	amod
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
57	57	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
apportate	apportare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituite	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
11	11	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11-bis	11-bis	X	X	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parte	parte	NOUN	S	appos
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
fisso	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parola	parola	NOUN	S	nsubj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
autoveicoli	autoveicolo	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
unità	unità	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
diporto	diporto	ADJ	A	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11-bis	11-bis	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
soppresse	soppresso	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
a	a	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	fixed
ad	a	ADP	E	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
note	nota	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parola	parola	NOUN	S	nsubj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
autoveicoli	autoveicolo	ADJ	A	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
unità	unità	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
diporto	diporto	ADJ	A	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituite	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
11	11	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiunto	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct
Atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
traslativa	traslativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarativa	dichiaratire	VERB	V	conj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
veicoli	veicolo	ADJ	A	xcomp
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
registro	registro	NOUN	S	compound
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogato	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
346	346	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
59-bis	59-bis	PROPN	SP	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esenzione	Esenzione	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	obl
registro	registro	NOUN	S	compound
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
l	l	NOUN	PC	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
58	58	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modifiche	Modifiche	PROPN	SP	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
apportate	apportare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Soggetti	Soggetti	PROPN	SP	nmod
passivi	passivo	ADJ	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Soggetti	Soggetti	NOUN	S	nsubj
passivi	passivo	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
usufrutto	usufrutto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enfiteusi	enfiteusi	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
superficie	superficie	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	obl
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
locatario	locatario	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
locatario	locatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
passivo	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
soppresso	sopprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiunto	aggiungere	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
locatore	locatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
locatario	locatario	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esperire	esperire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
701	701	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricato	fabbricato	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	nmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotata	annotare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
catastali	catastale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	nmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
locatore	locatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
locatario	locatario	NOUN	S	obl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
soppresso	sopprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terreni	terreno	NOUN	S	nmod
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
coltivatori	coltivatore	NOUN	S	xcomp
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprenditori	imprenditore	NOUN	S	conj
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
comunali	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1963	1963	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
invalidità	invalidità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vecchiaia	vecchiaia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	appos
CON	CON	ADP	E	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	PROPN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
2011	2011	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	case
D.LGS	D.LGS	PROPN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

30	30	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
506	506	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
59	59	NUM	N	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Potestà	Potestà	PROPN	SP	nmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riguardante	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
terreni	terreno	NOUN	S	obj
considerati	considerato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fabbricabili	fabbricabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dedicato	dedicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	conj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	obl
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
montane	montano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
unità	unità	NOUN	S	compound
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obl
istituzionali	istituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
i	i	ADJ	NO	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	obj
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ccomp
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzatore	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	appos
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
LETTERA	LETTERA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATA	ABROGATA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nummod
2011	2011	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ccomp
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	conj
CON	CON	ADP	E	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	PROPN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	conj
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2011	2011	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
LETTERA	LETTERA	PROPN	SP	dep
ABROGATA	ABROGATA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	punct

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT

DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	conj
CON	CON	ADP	E	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	PROPN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	dep
22	22	NUM	N	nummod

DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2011	2011	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aree	area	NOUN	S	obl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
divenute	divenute	VERB	V	acl
inedificabili	inedificabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilendone	stabilendorre	VERB	V	conj
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
temporali	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frequenza	frequenza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
varianti	variante	NOUN	S	nmod
apportate	apportato	VERB	A	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
urbanistici	urbanistico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
periodicamente	periodicamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
zone	zona	NOUN	S	obl
omogenee	omogenee	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
valori	valore	NOUN	S	obj
venali	venale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aree	area	NOUN	S	nmod
fabbricabili	fabbricabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versata	versare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
predeterminato	predeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
improntati	improntare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perseguimento	perseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ridurre	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
insorgenza	insorgenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
LETTERA	LETTERA	PROPN	SP	obl
ABROGATA	ABROGATA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nummod
2011	2011	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	ADP	E	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	PROPN	S	dep
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	nmod
L.	lira	NOUN	SP	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nummod
2011	2011	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	i	ADJ	NO	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ccomp
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	obj
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contitolare	contitolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

l	l	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
LETTERA	LETTERA	NOUN	S	nsubj
ABROGATA	ABROGATA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
introdurre	introdurre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
adesione	adesione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
19	19	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
218	218	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

n	n	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
LETTERA	LETTERA	NOUN	S	ROOT
ABROGATA	ABROGATA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
differimenti	differimente	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

p	p	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
potenziamento	potenziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
662	662	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	ccomp
compensi	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
incentivanti	incentivante	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	ADJ	A	obl
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
60	60	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
erariali	erariale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
assicurazioni	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
motore	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
ciclomotori	ciclomotore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
419	419	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
i	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obj
automobilistici	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
risiede	risiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intestatario	intestatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.	D.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
LGS	LGS	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

30	30	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
506	506	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	X	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
Sicilia	Sicilia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Sardegna	Sardegna	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Friuli-Venezia	Friuli-Venezia	PROPN	SP	conj
Giulia	Giulia	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Valle	Valle	PROPN	SP	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Aosta	Aosta	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
statuti	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
autonomie	autonomia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	obj
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	X	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
premi	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	conj
incassati	incassare	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
data	dare	VERB	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	X	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
61	61	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
erariali	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
riscosso	riscosso	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
assicurazioni	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incremento	incremento	NOUN	S	obl
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
premi	premio	NOUN	S	nmod
assicurativi	assicurativo	ADJ	A	amod
registrato	registrare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fonte	fonte	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondo	fondo	NOUN	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inizialmente	inizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
ridotta	ridotto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stima	stima	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
effettuata	effettuato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministeri	Ministeri	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
Ministeri	Ministeri	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
definitive	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondo	fondo	ADJ	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
introdotte	introdotto	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
seconda	secondo	ADJ	NO	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
terza	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
rata	rare	VERB	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2000	2000	NUM	N	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
conguagli	conguaglio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	A	amod
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1999	1999	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
anno	anno	NOUN	S	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1977	1977	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
952	952	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondo	fondo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
operata	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinati	determinato	ADJ	PI	advcl
ripartendo	ripartere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
1999	1999	NUM	N	nummod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
provincie	provincie	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
percentualmente	percentualmente	ADV	B	amod
corrispondente	corrispondere	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	obl
riscosso	riscosso	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
1997	1997	NUM	N	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dotazioni	dotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondo	fondo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
operata	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivi	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
1998	1998	NUM	N	nummod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
recuperate	recuperare	ADJ	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
insufficienza	insufficienza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portate	portare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
statali	statale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
gettiti	gettito	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	X	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riequilibrio	riequilibrio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
recepimento	recepimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
statuti	statuto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	ADJ	FB	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62	62	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	punct

L.	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nummod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	NOUN	FB	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
63	63	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	SP	nmod

L.	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nummod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	NOUN	FB	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
64	64	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
transitorie	transitorio	ADJ	A	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
installazione	installazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblicitari	pubblicitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
spazi	spazio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aree	area	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciate	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
i	il	DET	RD	det
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
63	63	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovate	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prorogare	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vantaggiose	vantaggioso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
52	52	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
507	507	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tassa	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spazi	spazio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aree	area	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nmod
data	dato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
escludere	escludere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
507	507	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitato	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
affissioni	affissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
definire	definire	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
recesso	recesso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionario	concessionario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
COMUNI	COMUNI	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Variazioni	Variazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
apportare	apportare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
occorrenti	occorrere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
66	66	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
entra	entrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nsubj
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquoto	NOUN	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scaglioni	scaglione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
emolumenti	emolumento	NOUN	S	obl
arretrati	arretrato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	NUM	N	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	obl
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat